Rose Bailey, David Brookshaw, Meghan Fitzgerald, David A Hill Jr,  
Danielle Lauzon, Matthew McFarland, Matt Miller, John Newman, John Snead, 
Travis Stout, Audrey Whitman, Stew Wilson, Filamena Young, Eric Zawadzki



NOW...
“This is all your fault,” Dawn whispered. 
They were running. Well, scrambling really, searching 
for the safety exit Ximena had been so certain was 
down this stretch of hallway.
“Well, you were the one who shined the flashlight in 
its eyes. You woke it up.”
“You were the one who screamed when it looked at us.”
“I wasn’t expecting it to move! Besides, it didn’t even 
have any ears.”
“Maybe you just weren’t looking closely enough. It 
probably had, like, a hundred ears. And it’s chasing us 
because you screamed at it.”
“Then why are we even whispering?” Mena huffed, 
“It’s not like it matters. If it’s got a hundred ears it can 
probably hear us everywhere. Dawn….did it look like 
Mrs. Luz to you?”
“I hope not. If I just hit Mrs. Luz with a flashlight your 
mom is going to kill me. Even if it was your idea to 
come down here in the first place.”
“Yeah, well, let’s worry about how long we’re going to 
get grounded once we’re definitely sure we’re going to 
live long enough to get grounded.”
They skidded to a stop in front of a smooth metal 
door and Mena cursed.
“Swearing is vulgar,” Dawn said, breathless and 
bitterly disappointed. They’d finally found a door. But 
there was no knob.
“You better run and go tell your mom, then. Don’t 
worry about me, I’ll just stay here and get eaten by 
something with a hundred ears while I’m waiting for 
you to stop being a baby.”
Dawn crouched on the floor and peered through the 
hole where the doorknob ought to have been. “And I’ll 
know when it’s here eating you because you’ll shut up 
for the first time in your life.”
Mena rolled her eyes. “You’d miss me so much you’d die.” 
“Yeah, ‘cause that thing would eat me next. My last 
few seconds of life would definitely be spent silently 
mourning you, though. Not wondering why I let you 
talk me into this.” 



“As long as we’re clear on that.” Mena picked up a 
screw from the ground next to Dawn. “Geeze, whoever 
broke these doors sure didn’t know what they were 
doing. Can I have your flashlight?”
Dawn handed it over. “The lens is cracked, but the 
bulb still works. What do you mean?”
Mena gestured at the metal detritus around them. 
“I mean that they didn’t just take the knob off, they 
wrecked it. These screws are stripped, and the wood’s 
cracked where they must have....pulled it out? Dawn, 
what room is this?”
Dawn looked up. “It’s pretty dark, so I’m not sure, but I 
think it’s the compactor room. Why?” 
“Who would want to break the door to the trash 
compactor? It’s half off its hinges.”
Dawn went pale. “Mena, what are we actually doing 
down here?”
“Well you heard my mom. When Jenna went missing, 
it was down here. So it’s the best place to check. And 
the cops didn’t even look for her. They probably 
missed lots of stuff down here.”
“Like the creepy old woman chasing us?”
“Well if they’d seen her, wouldn’t they have done 
something?”
Dawn shot Ximena an irritated look. “Yeah, they would 
have shot her and then we all would have gotten 
arrested for making the place look untidy. Use your 
dang head, Mena. They didn’t look because they didn’t 
want to find anything.”
“Maybe they knew there was something down here? 
I saw the cop who handcuffed your dad talking to the 
lawyer who’s been hassling papi to sell this place.”
Dawn shuddered. “Ew, the one with the milky eyes? 
He gives me the creeps. Why didn’t you tell me you 
thought there might be someone down here?”
“I didn’t think they would still be here! Or that you 
were going to blind the first thing we saw before 
cracking it in the face with your flashlight.”
“At least I’m taking initiative.” She paused for half a 
breath. “Don’t you live here? How do you not know 
where the emergency exits are?”
“Not all of us were born thirty years old, Dawn. There’s 
a map on the door in my apartment, okay? I didn’t 
think I’d need to memorize it.”
Dawn digested that for a moment, looking thoughtful. 
“But, if you had to guess? The next door? The one 
after that? Mena, we’ve got to have run at least a mile 
by now and we haven’t even turned a corner. The 
building isn’t this big.”
“Look!” Mena grabbed Dawn’s shoulder and they 
careened toward a door fitted so close to the wall that 
they had almost run past it. “See, I told you the fire 
door was this way.”
“Mena...are you sure this is the right door?” The door 
was damp and hot to the touch, its surface so soft that 
Dawn’s hand left fingerprints where she touched it. 
She quickly pulled her hand away. 
“Ew! Mena, the door was feeling my hand. It was, like, 
touching me back.”



“3B? I didn’t know there were apartments down here.” 
The number looked like it had been carved into the 
door with a knife, exposing some red-brown interior 
wood. Mena raised a hand to touch it.
“No.” Dawn grabbed Mena’s hand and started pulling 
her away. “No, this door is weird and it’s not the right 
one anyway. Let’s go already.”
“Dawn, it’s just a door. It couldn’t be touching you back.” 
She stepped back toward the door. “Aren’t you the one 
who’s always saying we should, you know, examine 
our world? I’m going to test your hypothesis that this 
ordinary door is covertly feeling the hands of teenagers.”
Its surface seemed to ripple slightly, smoothing into 
something that almost looked like wood grain.
“Look! It moved! Didn’t you see it move? Ximena Luisa 
Salazar, there is something made of skin and old 
clothes that is chasing us. It seems like a bad time for 
you to demonstrate a sudden interest in skepticism!” 
Dawn started dragging Mena back away from the door.
As she did, a tiny tendril of something wood-colored 
stretched off the surface of the door toward Mena’s 
hand. Dawn shrieked and pulled Mena so hard they 
both fell over.
Mena staggered up and helped Dawn to her feet. “Okay, 
I’m going to tentatively confirm your hypothesis that 
this is a totally weird door and we should run.”
“Thank you.”
“Little rats, little rats, what are you doing in my 
basement?” The voice seemed to come from the walls 
themselves, dry as old paper and matte quiet, without 
even an echo to point to where the old woman might 
already be standing.
They spun, waving the flashlight around them.
“Oh, shit,” Dawn whispered.
For all her shaking, Mena spoke up first. “It’s our 
basement too, you know. We live here. We’ve got just 
as much of a right to be here as you.”

TEN MINUTES AGO...
Dawn swung her flashlight around the room once 
more. “Mena, I don’t think there’s anything down 
here. Just a bunch of spiders and broken furniture. 
Why hasn’t your dad cleaned this out yet? There’s 
practically a whole new unit.”
A voice from the hallway called, “Too close to the 
laundry room outtake, it kept getting mildewy and no 
one wanted to stay there.” She poked her head through 
the doorway. “Gross, it even smells mildewy in there.”
“What am I looking for again?”
“Anything of Jenna’s. I dunno, earrings or a school 
book or her stupid pony pen case.”
There was a clink and a roll and Dawn’s flashlight 
skidded to a halt. “Butterflies?”
“What?” Ximena started walking into the room.
“Did she like butterflies?”
“Yeah, I think she collected them or something. Why?”
Dawn gestured down to the jar of butterfly wings 
rocking against the concrete. They took reflexive 



steps toward one another, and Dawn slowly panned 
the flashlight up. The pile of old clothes crammed 
between the two halves of a broken couch rippled 
as the light moved, settling onto a perfectly still face 
under the pale yellow light. 
“Dawn,” Mena whispered, “can you make it any brighter?”
“I think so.” 
The flashlight clicked twice, deepening the shadows 
in the still, wrinkly face. Within those depths, one eye 
opened. Then the next. It lunged, clumsy and covered 
in piles of fabric and clattering everywhere with 
little bits of children’s jewelry. Mena screamed; Dawn 
swung the flashlight wildly and heard it crack. The 
light flickered and something howled.
And they ran.

AND THEN...
A figure peeled away from the shadows, close enough 
for Dawn to feel its breath, cold and rotten smelling, 
on her neck. From far away she had looked impossibly 
old. Yesterday, half a hallway away, Mrs. Luz had been 
a picture of decrepit old age, with furrows of loose 
skin bunched along her face and arms, crowding her 
faint features; squeezed into a baggy dress and dull 
support hose. Today, and this close, the resemblance 
to a person somewhat faltered. The skin seemed to 
shape her face, rather than the other way around, 
forming the impression of eyes and mouth out of 
shadow and flesh. The hose melted into the color of 
dry skin as she rippled rapidly toward them. Her hand 
flowed towards Dawn like water, skin crashing onto 
skin, lightly stretching to engulf her outflung arm.
Dawn screamed and desperately yanked at her arm, 
now surrounded by a puddle of skin mottled and 
studded with tiny blue streaks that must have looked 
like capillaries at a distance.
“Mrs. Luz?” Mena tentatively called out.
Her voice sounded like bedbugs and waking up in a 
cold sweat. “As good a name as any other. But you can’t 
name me to get rid of me, little rat.” She slowly pulled 
Dawn closer.
“This is your home too, eh? Which one of you belongs 
to the man who owns my nest?” More soft waves of 
skin crept down Dawn’s arm and across her chest, 
and her struggling was getting fainter. “Don’t wait too 
long, I might lose interest in your answer.”
Mena tried to grab Dawn’s other arm, but Mrs. Luz 
wrenched her away, spinning her to the left. Dawn 
whimpered, then turned her head and mouthed 
something Mena couldn’t understand.
“I am! It’s me, let her go,” Mena shouted 
The folds of Mrs. Luz’s face rearranged into something 
that might have been meant to be a smile. “Good girl. 
You will take a message from me to the man.”
Dawn was shifting, very slowly, in Mrs. Luz’s grasp. 
She caught Ximena’s eyes again and stared; gesturing 
slightly to the left with her eyes. Dawn was angry, not 
scared, so she must need time.
Mena paused and tried to catch Mrs. Luz’s eyes. 
“What man?”



“To your father, stupid child. Tell him he mustn’t sell 
my home to the hollow men who have been creeping 
around here at night. I’ll kill as many of you as I must 
to drive them off, but it can all stop if he promises not 
to sign anything they give him.”
“Hollow men? The lawyer, you mean? Papi said he 
was a real estate investor.”
“Nonsense words. He is an empty thing that traded 
favors for a face and a name, and the men he speaks 
for don’t even have the grace to cast a shadow. They 
are hollow men and they must not be allowed to put 
their clockwork...”
Mena interrupted her, angry. “Wait, you’ll kill as many 
of us as you must? What did you do with Jenna?”
“The soft, pink one? She was oily but toothsome. You, 
I suspect,” and she shook Dawn again, who struggled 
harder this time, palming something, “will need to sit a 
few days before you are soft enough for my old teeth.”
Mena tried to stay calm. “But you’re scaring everyone 
away! If any more tenants leave we won’t be able to 
afford to live here. He’ll have to sell.”
Mrs. Luz appeared to consider this for a moment. “The 
man’s gold is his own to track. Tell him not to sell or 
I’ll collect you next.”
Mena didn’t quite suppress a shudder. “I will, but only 
if you let her go.”
“I will not. You are the child with the message, so this 
one is for me. You are thoughtful to have brought her, 
and she will buy your safe escape.”
“You evil old witch!” Mena threw Dawn’s flashlight at 
Mrs. Luz – and regretted it almost instantly when one 
of the folds of skin holding Dawn in place reached 
out to bat it away.
Dawn, in that moment, wrenched herself forward to 
face Mrs. Luz, and emptied a can of pepper spray into 
the folds where her face should have been. Mrs. Luz 
reeled backward, screaming, as Dawn braced herself 
against the dress-colored flesh and pulled her arm 
free. “Come on, this way!”
Mena was already running.
“Dawn, wait, this is the way we came!”
“I know, just trust me!”
Mena tailed Dawn back to the door with no knob.
“No, this is a stupid plan. Do you even know how to 
turn it on?”
“Only one way to find out! Come on, help me pull this 
thing open.” The wood splintered and came apart. Not 
open, but open enough for them to crawl through.
Before climbing in, Dawn pressed the remains of the 
doorknob into Mena’s hands. “You’re a better pitcher 
than me. Remember, all you’ve got to do is get her 
attention.”
The minute that Ximena stood outside the wreckage 
of the door lasted six years. So when she saw Mrs. Luz 
charging toward her, screaming so loudly it rattled 
Mena’s teeth, she was a little relieved. 



“If this works, I am never going to try to solve a 
mystery again as long as I live.” She took a deep breath 
and shouted, “Hey, ugly!”
Mrs. Luz sped up, all pretense of human form giving 
way to a rolling mass of mottled flesh. To her right, she 
heard a slow whirr and a chunky metallic crash. With a 
smile, she lined up a pitch; and hit Mrs. Luz right in the 
center of the red, blistery mass where her face had been. 
She scrambled through the hole they’d broken in the 
door and flattened herself against the far side of the 
compactor door, afraid to breathe. It was terribly dark. 
Dawn had thrown her jacket over the red warning light, 
and was standing in front of the open compactor door.
Mrs. Luz burst through the broken door, sending 
splintery shards of wood everywhere, and saw Dawn, 
fully illuminated by the hallway light and looking 
convincingly terrified.
“Naughty rat. Did you think you could hide from me 
in my own nest?” 
She lunged, and Dawn leaped to the side, letting 
momentum take its course. Mena slammed the 
compactor door shut, and Dawn frantically set it in 
motion. They huddled against each other and waited 
until the screaming stopped. Neither of them could 
work up the nerve to open the compactor and make 
sure she was really dead.

AND AFTER THAT...
“Do… do you think she’s the only one?”
Late that night, they were crammed head to tail into 
Dawn’s twin bed, reminding each other that it really 
happened.
“What would you do if she wasn’t?”
Ximena swallowed hard. “Well, maybe we should look 
for them. Maybe they’re not all mean and crazy like 
Mrs. Luz. Maybe there are some nice ones who could, 
like, use a friend or something.”
“Do you really think anything like her could actually 
be friends with us?”
“Well maybe we should look anyway. We’ve already 
fought one, right? That makes us practically qualified 
to find – fight – monsters.”
“I’ll think about it,” Dawn paused, “But you can’t tell 
anyone else. Especially not your little brother. He’s got 
a big mouth, and you never know who might be a… 
monster.”
The next week was weird. Once the court gag order 
was lifted they could talk, a little, about what had 
happened. The official word was that a homeless 
woman had snuck into the basement and attacked 
the girls while they were cleaning. They ran away, 
and in her pursuit she hit her head so hard on the 
concrete steps that it broke her nose and cheekbone, 
accounting for the corpse’s unusually distorted and 
swollen face. Unrelated, Mrs. Luz, the longest-lived 
tenant of their building, died of heart failure. 
She left no next of kin.



Credits Special Thanks
Chronicles of Darkness The First Edition Authors, for opening up a bold new 

Authors: Rose Bailey, Meghan Fitzgerald, David A Hill Jr, chapter in the history of the World of Darkness.
Matt Miller, Travis Stout, Audrey Whitman, Filamena Young The Onyx Path Developers, for all your many answers to 
Developer: Rose Bailey arcane questions and your contributions to brainstorming.
Editor: Dixie Cochran Ken Cliffe, Justin Achilli, and the 2004 White Wolf 
Artists: Brian Leblanc, Sam Araya, Durwin Talon, Jeff Holt, Crew, because we’d never be here without you.
Andrew Trabbold, David Leri, Andrew Hepworth, Cathy 
Wilkins, James Denton, Heather Kreiter, Aaron Acevedo  
Art Direction and Design: Michael Chaney
Creative Director: Richard Thomas
Indexer: T.R. Knight

The God-Machine Chronicle
Authors: Dave Brookshaw, David A Hill Jr, Danielle 
Lauzon, Matthew McFarland, John Newman, John Snead, 
Stew Wilson, Filamena Young, Eric Zawadzki
Developer: Matthew McFarland
Editor: Michelle Lyons-McFarland

© 2016 White Wolf Publishing AB. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, 
recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of White Wolf Publishing AB. Reproduction 
prohibitions do not apply to the character sheets contained in this book when reproduced for personal use. 
White Wolf, Vampire and Chronicles of Darkness are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing AB. All 
rights reserved. Night Horrors: Unbidden, Vampire the Requiem, Werewolf the Forsaken, Mage the Awakening, 
Storytelling System, and Ancient Bloodlines are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing AB.. All rights reserved. 
All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing AB.

The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark 
or copyright concerned.

This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertain-
ment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised.

Check out White Wolf online at http://www.white-wolf.com
Check out the Onyx Path at http://www.theonyxpath.com
Book originally titled The World of Darkness Second Edition

8 
chronicles of Darkness



Chronicles of Darkness
Apt. 3B	 2 Attributes	 30 Research 	 72

Mental Attributes	 30 Shadowing a Mark 	 72
Introduction	 17 Physical Attributes	 30 Sneaking 	 72

How to Use This Book	 17 Social Attributes	 31 Time	 73

Chapters	 17 Skills	 31 Skill Specialties	 73

An Introduction  Mental Skills	 31 Willpower	 73

to Storytelling Games	 18 Physical Skills	 36 Anchors	 73

Inspirational Media	 18 Social Skills	 40 Integrity	 73

Horror and Drama	 18 Merits	 43 Breaking Points 	 73

Storytelling System Books	 19 Renaming Merits	 43 Meditation	 75

Other Chronicles of Darkness	20 Style Merits	 43 Conditions	 75

Lexicon	 20 Sanctity of Merits	 43 Lingering Conditions	 76
Improvised Conditions	 76

The Face  Mental Merits	 44

in the Mirror: Characters	24 Physical Merits	 47 Experience	 76
Social Merits	 49 Beats	 76

Character Creation	 24 Supernatural Merits	 56 Investigation 	 77
Step One:  Fighting Merits	 60 Two Essential  
Character Concept	 24 Rules of Investigation 	 77
Step Two: Anchors	 25 Infernal Engines:  What is a Clue? 	 78
Step Three:  Dramatic Systems	 68

Relevant Traits 	 78
Select Attributes	 25 Rolling Dice	 68 Step One: Decide the  
Step Four: Select Skills	 26 When to Roll Dice	 69 Scope of the Investigation	 79
Step Five:  Attribute Tasks	 69 Step Two:  
Pick Skill Specialties	 26

Muddling Through	 69 Determine the Potential Clue	 79
Step Six: Merits	 26

Actions	 69 Step Three: Establish Interval	79
Step Seven: 

Contested Actions	 70 Step Four: Create Dice Pool	 79
Determine Advantages	 26

Argument 	 70 Step Five: Uncover the Clue	79
Anchors	 27 Carousing 	 71 Clue Elements 	 80

Virtue and Vice	 27 Fast-Talk 	 71 Clue Tags 	 80
Virtue	 27 Interrogation 	 71 Uncovering the Truth	 81
Vice	 28 Intimidation 	 71 Social Maneuvering	 81

Aspirations	 28 Investigating a Scene 	 71 Goals	 81
Breaking Points	 29 Jumping 	 71

Doors	 81
Repair 	 72

9 
Table of Contents



First Impressions	 81 Jury Rigging	 102 Possessed 	 134
Opening Doors	 82 Repair, Modifications,  Reaching 	 135
Resolution	 82 and Upgrades	 103 Resonant	 135

Example of  Taking Your Time	 103 Shadow Gate	 136
Social Maneuvering 	 83 Examples of Play	 103 Underworld Gate	 136

Forcing Doors	 83 Urged	 136
Black Threads:  

Influencing Groups	 83 Numina	 136
Storytelling	 106 Aggressive Meme	 136

Successive Efforts	 84
Chases	 84 Invisible Hands:  Awe	 136

Storytelling Responsibilities	 106 Blast	 136
Set the Terms	 84

Spines 	 107 Dement 	 136
The Edge 	 84

Pulled Muscles	 108 Drain	 137
Turn-By-Turn	 85 Emotional Aura 	 137

No Meat Wasted 	 109
Seizing the Edge	 85 Essence Thief	 137

Your Exquisite Corpse	 110
The Social Chase 	 86 Fate Sense	 137

Prick the Skin	 110
Violence	 86 Firestarter 	 137

Missing Persons: 
Intent	 86 Hallucination	 137

Creating Your Setting	 110 Host Jump	 137
Down and Dirty Combat	 87 The Missing Person 	 111 Implant Mission 	 137
Willpower	 87 Crime Scenes	 112 Innocuous	 137
Initiative	 88 Implication	 113 Left-Handed Spanner	 137
Attack	 88 Community	 113 Mortal Mask	 137
Defense	 88 Authorities	 114 Omen Trance	 138
Unarmed Combat	 89 People of Interest	 114 Pathfinder 	 138
Ranged Combat	 90 Rapture 	 138

Media and Inspiration	 115
General Combat Factors	 92 Regenerate	 138

Weapons and Armor	 94 Horrors and Wonders:  Resurrection	 138
Antagonists	 118 Seek 	 138

Injury and Healing	 95
Speed	 138

Objects	 96 Antagonists	 118 Sign	 138
Sources of Harm	 96 Traits	 119 Stalwart	 138

Disease	 96 Cocky Mob Hitman	 119 Telekinesis 	 138
Drugs	 96 Excitable Munitions Expert	 119 Mortal Interaction	 138
Electricity	 96 Fanatical Cult Leader	 119

Horrors	 140
Hard-Nosed Beat Cop	 120

Extreme Environments	 97
Obsessed Demon Cultist	 120 Step One: Concept	 141

Falling	 97 Slick Professional Grifter	 121 Step Two: Potency	 141
Fire	 98 Trained Guard Dog	 121 Step Three: Anchors	 141
Poison	 98 World-Weary Private Eye	 121 Step Four: Attributes	 142

Vehicles	 98 Ephemeral Beings	 122 Step Five: Dread Powers	 142
Vehicle Traits	 99 Invisible Incursions	 122 Step Six: Skills	 142
Crashes	 99 Manifestation and Possession	 122 Step Seven: Merits	 142

Equipment	 100 Ghosts	 122 Step Eight: Advantages	 142
Availability and Procurement	 100 Spirits	 123 Brief Nightmares	 143
Size, Durability, and Structure	 100 Angels	 124 Dread Powers	 144
Dice Bonuses	 100 Game Systems	 124 Beastmaster	 145
Game Effect	 100 Anchor 	 133 Chameleon Horror	 145

Building Equipment	 100 Claimed	 133 Discorporate	 145

Equipment Types	 100 Controlled 	 133 Eye Spy	 145
Fire Elemental	 145

To Roll or Not to Roll	 101 Fettered 	 133
Infrastructure 	 134 Gremlin	 145

The Build Equipment Action	101
Materialized	 134 Home Ground	 145

Fragile	 102
Open	 134 Hunter’s Senses	 145

Volatile	 102

10 
chronicles of Darkness



Hypnotic Gaze	 145 Prodigious Leap	 147 The Horde	 149
Immortal	 145 Reality Stutter	 147 The House That Hates	 150
Influence 	 145 Regenerate	 147 Jersey Devil	 152
Jump Scare	 146 Skin-Taker	 147 Mothman	 153
Know Soul	 146 Snare	 147

Mr. Let-Me-In	 154
Madness and Terror	 146 Soul Thief	 147
Maze	 146 Surprise Entrance	 148 Nibbles the Clown	 154

Miracle	 147 Toxic	 148 Pretty, Pretty Princess	 155
Mist Form	 147 Unbreakable	 148 Rachel Hrafn	 156
Natural Weapons	 147 Wall Climb	 148 The Swimming Hole	 157
Numen	 147 Black-Eyed Kids	 148 Vanishing Hitchhiker	 158

The God Machine Chronicle
Voice of the Angel	 162 Linchpins	 197 Infrastructure	 207

Methods	 198 Interchangeable Parts	 207
Gears Within Gears: Escalation	 198 Blueprints	 207
The God-Machine Do-Over 	 199 Linchpins	 207
Chronicle	 170

Infrastructure	 199 Methods	 208
All the Truth There Is	 171 Interchangeable Parts	 199 Escalation	 208
Mainspring	 171 Blueprints	 199 The Key 	 208

Shards of the Divine: Linchpins	 200 Infrastructure 	 208
Building the  Methods	 200 Interchangeable Parts	 209
God-Machine Chronicle	 180 Escalation	 201 Blueprints	 209

The Tiers	 180 Sister City 	 201 Linchpins	 210

Local	 180 Infrastructure	 201 Methods	 210

Regional	 182 Interchangeable Parts	 201 Escalation	 210

Global	 184 Blueprints	 202 Missing Persons 	 210

Cosmic	 185 Linchpins	 202 Infrastructure	 210

Assembly Required	 186 Methods	 202 Interchangeable Parts	 211

Spinning Cogs	 187 Escalation	 202 Blueprints	 211

Into the Machine	 188 The Squares of the City 	 203 Linchpins	 211

Progression	 188 Infrastructure	 203 Methods	 212

Chronicle Tracks	 188 Interchangeable Parts	 203 Escalation	 212

Protect and Serve	 188 Blueprints	 203 The Moon Window 	 212

Rage Against  Linchpins	 204 Infrastructure	 212
the God-Machine	 190 Methods	 204 Interchangeable Parts	 212
Space & Time	 191 Escalation	 204 Blueprints	 212
Wanderers	 192 Wellington School  Linchpins	 213

for Gifted Children 	 205 Methods	 213
Hagiography:  Infrastructure	 205
Tales of  Escalation	 214

the God-Machine	 196 Interchangeable Parts	 205 Wake the Dead 	 214
Blueprints	 205 Infrastructure 	 214

LOCAL TALES	 197 Linchpins	 206 Interchangeable Parts	 214
The 300 Block 	 197 Methods	 206 Blueprints	 214

Infrastructure 	 197 Escalation	 206 Linchpins	 215
Interchangeable Parts	 197 REGIONAL TALES	 207 Methods	 215
Blueprints	 197 Ghost Machine 	 207 Escalation	 215

11 
Table of Contents



GLOBAL TALES	 216 Methods	 225 Linchpins	 235
A Glimpse of  Escalation	 226 Methods	 237
Mesmerizing Complexity	 216 COSMIC TALES	 226 Escalation	 237

Infrastructure	 216 The Hatching 	 226 The Cogs in the Machine: 
Interchangeable Parts	 216 Infrastructure	 226 Characters	 240
Blueprints	 216 Interchangeable Parts	 226
Linchpins	 217 Benjamin Wayne Masters	 240

Blueprints	 227 Dr. Henri Girard	 241
Methods	 218 Linchpins	 227 Joseph Moore 	 243
Escalation	 218 Methods	 227 Lucien McJack	 244

The Invisible Citadel	 219 Escalation	 228 Margret Avery	 245
Infrastructure	 219 A Journey Into Time 	 228 Mark Wilson, “Truth”	 246
Interchangeable Parts	 219 Infrastructure	 228 Melissa Charles	 247
Blueprints	 219 Interchangeable Parts	 228 Lieutenant Samuel Hackett	 248
Linchpins	 220 Blueprints	 229 Sarah Andrews	 249

Methods	 220 Wesley Cote	 250
Linchpins	 230

West Nautical 36	 251
Escalation	 221 Methods	 230

Angels	 253
Operation: Bell Jar	 221 Escalation	 230 The Architect 	 253

Infrastructure 	 221 This is Hell 	 231 Black Nathaniel	 254
Interchangeable Parts	 221 Infrastructure 	 231 Blind Serpents	 255
Blueprints	 221 Interchangeable Parts	 231 Clockwork Servitors	 255
Linchpins	 222 Blueprints	 231 Dalga:  
Methods	 222 Linchpins	 232 The Creators of Servitors	 256
Escalation	 223 Methods	 232 Emilio Rubio	 257

Proposition 279 	 223 Grief	 258
Escalation	 232

Infrastructure 	 223 Jenn	 259
What Is It Good For	 233 Kalka	 259

Interchangeable Parts	 223 Infrastructure 	 233 Mirror Vulture	 260
Blueprints	 223 Interchangeable Parts	 233 Mr. Nose	 261
Linchpins	 224 Blueprints	 233 Officer Strait	 262
Methods	 224 Linchpins	 233 Polis Men	 262
Escalation	 224 Methods	 234 Rasha	 263

The Scarlet Plague 	 225 Escalation	 235 Serotonin	 263
Infrastructure 	 225 Urban Wandering 	 235 Triage	 264
Interchangeable Parts	 225 Infrastructure	 235 Your Own Angels	 265
Blueprints	 225 The Candle Maker	 265

Interchangeable Parts	 235
Linchpins	 225 The Lady in Red	 266

Blueprints	 235

12 
chronicles of Darkness



The Appendices
Appendix One:  Extreme Cold	 282 Bonded 	 288
Equipment	 268 Extreme Heat	 282 Connected	 288

Flooded	 282 Crippled (Persistent) 	 288
Weapons	 268

Heavy Rain	 283 Deprived	 288
Armor	 270 Heavy Winds	 283 Embarrassing Secret	 289
Equipment	 270 Ice	 284 Fugue (Persistent)	 289
Mental Equipment	 270 Immobilized	 284 Guilty	 289
Physical Equipment	 274 Insane	 285 Informed	 289
Social Equipment	 277 Insensate	 285 Inspired	 289
Services	 277 Knocked Down	 285 Leveraged	 289

Leg Wrack	 285 Lost	 289
Appendix Two: Tilts	 280 Poisoned	 286 Madness (Persistent)	 289

Arm Wrack	 280 Sick	 286 Mute (Persistent) 	 290
Beaten Down	 280 Stunned	 286 Notoriety	 290
Blinded	 281 Obsession 	 290

Appendix Three:  
Blizzard	 281 Conditions	 288 Shaken	 290
Deafened	 281 Soulless (Persistent)	 290
Drugged	 281 Amnesia (Persistent)	 288 Spooked	 291
Earthquake	 282 Blind 	 288 Steadfast	 291

Broken (Persistent)	 288 Swooned	 291

Tables
Size	 26 Rank	 125 Ranged Weapons Chart	 268
Current Rating Modifiers	 74 Influence Effects	 130 Melee Weapons Chart	 269
Breaking Point Modifiers	 74 Influence Durations	 130 Armor Chart	 270
Impressions	 82 Manifestation Effects	 131 Services	 278
Chase Modifiers	 84 Potency	 142 Personal Tilts	 287
Environment Levels	 97 Nightmare Dice Pool	 143 Environmental Tilts	 287
Example Vehicles 	 98

13 
Table of Contents



Where the Shadows Grow Long
We live our days completely ignorant of the true terrors lurking around us.  

Only rarely do our experiences draw back the veil of shadows and reveal the  
horror in our midst. These glimpses into the supernatural can cause us to retreat 
into comforting lies - 'There are no such things as monsters' - or stir our morbid 
curiosity. Only a few, however, can overcome their fear and dare to look deeper.

Abandon Hope All Who Enter









Introduction
At a warehouse on 17th street, surgeries are performed in accordance with the 

phase of the moon. In the suburbs, a housewife dotes on a large dog with man-like 
hands. Roaming the backwoods, there is a man who traded his hand to a hungry 
devil for immortality. He spends his nights polishing his hook.

These are the Chronicles of Darkness, tales of a world like ours, but just slightly 
wrong. A place we recognize, but where our fears take on lives of their own. The 
Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook is the key to exploring that world, a guide to 
storytelling encounters with the uncanny and a foundation for tales in which the 
monster becomes the hero.

The Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook will help you and your friends tell tales 
of thrills and chills. It provides tools for investigation, violence, setting-building, 
and more, but layers them on top of a framework that lets you dial back the 
complexity and improvise at any time.

He must have felt that How to Use This Book
he had lost the old 

warm world... He must The Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook describes how to create protagonists for 
have looked up at an your own unique horror stories, how to adjudicate the results of their actions, and 

unfamiliar sky through how to play a storytelling game with your friends. Use this book as an introduction 
frightening leaves and to both storytelling games and the unique setting of the Chronicles of Darkness.
shivered as he found 

what a grotesque thing 
a rose is and how raw Chapters
the sunlight was upon Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror describes how to create your protagonists. 

the scarcely created If you’re playing one of these starring characters, this should be your first stop.
grass. A new world, Chapter Two: Infernal Engines explains the rules of the Chronicles of Darkness 

material without being storytelling game, from finding clues to building bombs. Players and Storytellers 
real, where poor ghosts, alike should be familiar with this section, since it’s where you’ll turn when the 
breathing dreams like characters are in trouble and you don’t know what happens next.

air, drifted fortuitously Chapter Three: Black Threads looks at the game from the perspective of the 
about... Storyteller, the player who organizes the game and plants the seeds which become 

F. Scott Fitzgerald,  stories in play. It also provides a system for creating Missing Persons scenarios that 

The Great Gatsby can bring a group of disparate characters together. Storytellers new and old should 
check out this chapter, as it’s packed with both basic advice and explanations of 
how to use the Chronicles of Darkness to their best advantage.

Chapter Four: Wonders and Horrors provides systems for creating monsters 
and other characters controlled by the Storyteller. Inside, you’ll find sample an-
tagonists, rules for spirits and ghosts, and a complete system for creating horrors 
right out of urban legend, as well as several examples of the same. Storytellers will 
want to make a lot of use of this chapter.

Chapter Five: The God-Machine Chronicle offers a variety of Storytelling 
advice, scenario ideas, and characters for running a game featuring the God-
Machine, a mysterious force that manipulates humans to build and extend its 
presence in the world. This chapter is intended mainly for Storytellers, since we 
wouldn’t want to spoil any surprises.

17 
Chapters



An Introduction to …facilitating the actions players’ characters take, while 
making sure there are always complications.

Storytelling Games …making sure that poor dice rolls affect but don’t stop 
the story.

Chances are you know what a storytelling — or roleplaying The players are responsible for…
— game is already. But if you’re new, or if you haven’t played a …creating their own individual characters as members 
Chronicles of Darkness game before, let’s talk about the basics. of the cast.

Starting with this book, you’ll play out stories following a …deciding what actions their characters take.
core cast of characters as they make their way in the Chronicles …making decisions that create drama and help keep the 
of Darkness, a distorted reflection of our own everyday world. story moving.
It’s a lot like a TV drama, something like Pretty Little Liars or …highlighting their characters’ strengths and weaknesses.
Breaking Bad. Individual gaming sessions, generally running …confronting the problems the Storyteller introduces.
two to four hours, are like weekly episodes. Secrets will be …developing their characters’ personalities and abilities 
revealed, relationships will be tested, and blood will be spilled. over time, and telling personal stories within the overall 

Around two to five players take on one cast member each. story of the game.
You’ll make decisions for your character. When her best Everyone is responsible for…
friend betrays her, you’ll plot her scheme for revenge. When …giving other players chances to highlight their charac-
the man with a hook for a hand comes calling late at night, ters’ abilities and personal stories, whether that’s by showing 
you’ll decide whether she runs or fights. them at their strongest or weakest.

One player, the Storyteller, is responsible for portraying …making suggestions about the story and action, while 
characters who don’t belong to specific players, and present- keeping in mind the authority of players over their characters 
ing fictional situations that challenge the other players’ and the responsibility of the Storyteller to occasionally make 
characters. Think of these as the supporting cast of our trouble.
imagined TV series — both ongoing characters who help or 
oppose the core cast, and guest stars of the week who turn 
up to cause unique kinds of trouble.

As for challenging the player characters, it’s the job of the Inspirational Media
Storyteller to come up with scenes where the players have Here are some books and movies that get us in the mood 
to make decisions fraught with conflict and danger. The to explore the Chronicles of Darkness.
Storyteller narrates a situation, then the other players say 
how their characters respond. The most important question Horror and Drama
a Storyteller can ask is “What do you do now?”

When a character acts, the outcome of the action is deter- The Crow, directed by Alex Proyas. Witness a city burning 
mined by rolling a handful of dice. The basics are simple. You for a mysterious ritual, and a man risen from the dead to wreak 
add a few numbers on your character sheet (a mini-dossier) vengeance upon those who wronged him. The Crow’s seedy 
and roll that many dice. You’ll find out whether your action characters and revenge-driven story are an example of what can 
works, or fails and gets your character into more trouble. happen when a Chronicles of Darkness chronicle goes, very, very 

While players other than the Storyteller will generally be wrong. Keep your eyes on the depiction of Detroit in the 90s, a 
advocates for their characters’ success, planning ways in which place which must look very much like the Chronicles of Darkness.
they can accomplish impressive deeds, a lot of drama and fun Demo, by Brian Wood and Becky Cloonan. This anthol-
comes from when things don’t go well for the protagonists. ogy comic follows strange events in the lives of a myriad of 
Again, think of a television series…the most interesting episodes people. Sometimes there’s a supernatural element, like a 
are often the ones where everything goes wrong for the characters young woman who can barely control her psychic powers. 
until they find a way to turn it around. That said, the Storyteller Other times, the truth is more ambiguous, like when the 
should make sure characters have a chance to bounce back rather “ghost” of a suicide leaves her boyfriend a mix tape. Demo 
than constantly dumping suffering on them. illustrates how the uncanny can impact ordinary people.

The Storyteller is responsible for… The Exorcist, directed by William Friedkin. A young 
woman is in trouble, and the Church tries to help. It could 

…bringing the Chronicles of Darkness to life through be almost sweet, except that the trouble is demonic posses-
description. sion and the help is a priest due for a crisis of faith. This is 

…deciding where scenes start and what’s going on. a great example of how a horror story can be terrifying and 
…portraying characters who don’t belong to other players. hint at bigger mysteries while sticking to very personal stakes.
…involving each player and her character in the ongoing story. Fell, by Warren Ellis and Ben Templesmith. This brood-
…putting players’ characters in tough spots, encouraging ing procedural comic follows the titular Fell, a detective 

interesting decisions. in a “feral city” – a major metropolis where law and order 

18 
INTRODUCTION



have collapsed but life goes on. Ellis’s seedy narratives and the series begins with the ritualistic murder of a prostitute, it 
Templesmith’s deceptively stylized visuals reveal the kinds rapidly expands in scope to include biker gangs, drug deals, 
of characters and crimes that would be right at home in the politics, and a possible conspiracy involving abuse at a now-
Chronicles of Darkness. The supernatural is never overt or defunct religious school. True Detective is an excellent show 
confirmed, but an eerie atmosphere and macabre rituals to use as inspiration for a longer chronicle wherein players 
permeate the story. slowly piece together what is really happening, while still 

Gone Girl, by Gillian Flynn, or directed by David Fincher. having contained adventures in each session.
Gone Girl owes much of its mystery and atmosphere to its unreli-
able narration. Both the book and the movie switch from the Storytelling System Books
perspective of Nick Dunne, who comes home one day to find 
his wife missing, and the diary of Amy Dunne, the missing Midnight Roads revs up your game with an in-depth 
wife. Are memories reliable? Can one really believe witnesses exploration of the Chronicles of Darkness through America’s 
and news stories, or is everything just tabloid journalism? How roads. Packed with odd traveling companions, small-town 
well can you ever really know a person, whether a neighbor or a strangeness, and hints at a greater purpose to it all.
spouse? Both the movie and the novel (as well as Gillian Flynn’s Mysterious Places fleshes out several locales unique to 
other two books, Sharp Objects and Dark Places) exemplify how the Chronicles of Darkness. What horrors await you in a 
a seemingly-simple situation can actually possess unexpected crematorium full of puppets made from bone, or when the 
depth, if only people know how to ask the right questions. Empty Room stalks and abducts you?

The Terminator, directed by James Cameron. Though Urban Legends is the Chronicles of Darkness treat-
nominally science fiction, this classic horror-action flick is ment of all of the fears we hide behind fables and humor. 
the story of a woman pursued by an implacable monster as It includes several urban legends as full adventures, plus a 
the result of a family curse. Pay attention to the neon-lit neo- chapter that covers everything from tainted Halloween candy 
noir Los Angeles setting, and the way an ordinary waitress to the Mexican Pet.
becomes a hardened survivor. Hurt Locker, coming soon, is an in-depth treatment of 

True Detective, created by Nick Pizzolatto. This show, violence in the Chronicles of Darkness, from action-packed 
which jumps back and forth in time, follows multiple ho- options like fighting styles to exploring the grim consequences 
micide cases and conspiracies over a 17-year period. Though of trying to kill another human being.

19 
Inspirational Media



Other Chronicles  time and do not prevent a character from performing another 
action within a turn, and contested actions, in which two or 

of Darkness more characters compete in a task or for a single goal. 
advantage — A character trait such as Health or Willpower 

that usually represents abilities derived from other traits. 
The Chronicles of Darkness isn’t just one setting, it’s Advantages are measured in dots and sometimes in points. 

many. Outside of this book, most of the games focus on aggravated (damage) — A damage point that inflicts a 
playing one type of monster. As of this writing, there are ten, grievous or supernatural wound. Vampires suffer aggravated 
with more to come. damage from fire; werewolves suffer it from silver. Mortals 

Vampire: The Requiem is a game of personal horror might suffer aggravated damage from a dire supernatural 
and visceral drama set in a society of predators that exists power such as a lightning bolt summoned from the sky by 
alongside ours. a witch. Aggravated wounds normally heal at a rate of one 

Werewolf: The Forsaken tells stories of spiritual threats point per week. 
and unrelenting hunters. Aspiration — One of a player's goals for her character. 

Mage: The Awakening follows mystery-addicted will- An Aspiration can be something the character seeks out, or 
workers as they seek to understand the Fallen World. something the player wants to see happen to the character.

Promethean: The Created is about the long road to Attribute — A character trait representing innate capabili-
becoming human. ties, Mental, Physical and Social. An Attribute is added to 

Changeling: The Lost explores how to reclaim your stolen a Skill (or another Attribute in certain cases) to determine 
life, while defending those around you from forces they could your basic dice pool for an action. 
never understand. bashing (damage) — A damage point that inflicts a non-

Hunter: The Vigil is about plain ol’ humans who don’t life-threatening wound. Bashing wounds normally heal at a 
just encounter the supernatural… they hunt it down and rate of one point per 15 minutes. 
make it pay. Beat — A point gained for performing certain actions. 

Geist: The Sin-Eaters follows ghost-bound people given Five Beats becomes an Experience, which can then be used 
a second chance, and their efforts to put the dead to rest. to purchase new traits, such as Attributes, Skills, Merits, or 

Mummy: The Curse is a game of ancient servants, awo- supernatural powers.
ken in the modern world to play their long games and work breaking point — A trigger that causes a player to have 
their ancient magic anew. to check for losing Integrity, Humanity, or a similar trait.

Demon: The Descent tells stories of the fallen servants chance roll — Whenever modifiers reduce your dice pool 
of a monstrous God, and their struggle to find their own to zero or fewer dice, you may make a chance roll on a single 
personal Hells. die. Unlike a normal dice roll, a chance roll succeeds only on 

Beast: The Primordial explores what it means to discover a result of 10. Worse, a result of 1 causes a dramatic failure. 
you’re a creature of nightmare, heir to ancient monsters like close combat — Attacks that involve hand-to-hand or 
Medusa and Fenris. weapon fighting. Such attacks use the Strength Attribute 

for their dice pools. Characters gain their Defense against 

Lexicon close-combat attacks. 
Condition — An ongoing effect, which may be physical, 

10 Again — A result of 10 on any die is re-rolled in an mental, or supernatural. For example, a character might 
attempt to achieve more successes. A further result of 10 be Guilty or Mesmerized. Usually, a Condition modifies a 
on a re-rolled die is rolled yet again, over and over, until no character's dice pools for certain actions. Players are rewarded 
more 10’s are rolled. with Beats when they act on or resolve (end) a Condition.

8 Again — A result of 8 or higher on any die is re-rolled contested action — Two or more characters compete in a 
in an attempt to achieve more successes. A further result of 8 task or for a single goal. The one who gets the most successes 
or higher on a re-rolled die is rolled yet again, over and over, wins. Contested actions can be instant or extended actions.
until no more 10’s are rolled. damage — The points inflicted against a character’s Health 

9 Again — A result of 9 or higher on any die is re-rolled or an object’s Structure, rated as bashing, lethal or aggravated. 
in an attempt to achieve more successes. A further result of 9 One point of damage inflicts one wound. 
or higher on a re-rolled die is rolled yet again, over and over, Defense — An advantage trait determined by taking the 
until no more 10’s are rolled. lowest of Dexterity or Wits and adding Athletics. Characters 

action — A task that takes all of a character’s time and can penalize a close-combat opponent’s accuracy by subtract-
attention. The Storytelling System measures instant actions ing their Defense from his dice pool. 
(one to three seconds, taking place within a single turn) and dice — The Storytelling System uses 10-sided dice to 
extended actions, taking longer (duration determined by the represent the element of chance. Dice are collected to form 
Storyteller). Also, there are reflexive actions, which take no a character’s dice pool for an action. 

20 
INTRODUCTION



dice pool — The number of dice rolled to determine point — A trait expended to gain certain effects, such as 
failure or success (and the degree of success) for a character’s a Willpower point or a measurement of damage or Health. 
action. Dice pools are usually determined by adding an The amount of points available to spend is equal to the parent 
Attribute to a Skill, plus any relevant equipment and/or trait’s dots. Spent points are regained over time or through 
modifiers. certain actions. 

dot — The incremental measurement of a permanent ranged combat — An attack that sends a projectile of 
trait. Most traits range from 1 to 5 dots, but some (such as some sort at a target, whether it’s a bullet from a gun or a 
Willpower) range from 1 to 10, and others (Health) can go knife from a hand. Such attacks use the Dexterity Attribute 
higher. for their dice pools. Characters’ Defense cannot normally be 

dramatic failure — A result of 1 on a chance roll causes a used against firearm attacks, although targets can penalize an 
dramatic failure, a catastrophe worse than a normal failure. opponent’s accuracy by going prone or taking cover.
The character’s gun might jam or he might wind up shooting reflexive action — An instinctual task that takes no appre-
a friend by accident. The Storyteller determines and describes ciable time, such as reacting to surprise or noticing something 
the result. A player can also turn a failure into a dramatic out of the corner of your eye. Performing a reflexive action 
failure voluntarily in order to gain a Beat. does not prevent a character from performing another action 

Durability — A trait representing an object’s hardness, within a turn. 
based on the material from which it is made (wood has less Resistance — Characters can resist others’ attempts to 
Durability than metal). Durability is measured in dots. An socially sway them, physically grapple them or even mentally 
attack’s damage must exceed Durability before the object is dominate them. Whenever applying such resistance requires 
harmed. a character’s full attention, it is performed as a contested 

equipment — Characters can improve their chances of suc- action, but more often it is a reflexive action, allowing the 
ceeding in a task by using the right equipment. This benefit target to also perform an action that turn. 
is represented by modifiers to the dice pool, depending on scene — A division of time based on drama, such as 
the equipment used and its quality. the end of one plot point and the beginning of another. 

exceptional success — Whenever five or more successes Whenever a character leaves a location where a dramatic 
are rolled, the character achieves an exceptional success. event has occurred, or when a combat has ended, the current 
This achievement sometimes provides an extra perk over and scene usually ends and the next one begins. 
above the effect of having multiple successes. For example, Skill — A character trait representing learned ability or 
a character who gains five successes on a fast-talk roll might knowledge. Added to an Attribute to determine a character’s 
allay the target’s suspicions enough that he believes anything basic dice pool for a task. 
the character says for the remaining scene. Specialty — An area of Skill expertise in which a character 

Experiences — A collection of five Beats, used to purchase excels. Whenever a Specialty applies to a character’s task, one 
new traits or to boost the dots of existing traits. die is added to his player’s dice pool. There’s no limit to the 

extended action — A task that takes time to accomplish. number of Specialties that you can assign to a single Skill. 
Players roll to accumulate successes during phases of the Storyteller — The “director” or “editor” of the interactive 
task, succeeding once they have acquired the needed total. story told by the players. The Storyteller creates the plot and 

failure — A dice roll that yields no successes is a failure roleplays the characters, both allies and enemies, with which 
— the character does not succeed at his task. the players’ characters interact. 

Initiative — An advantage trait representing the charac- success — Each die that rolls an 8, 9 or 10 yields one suc-
ter’s ability to respond to sudden surprise, determined by cess. (Exception: A chance roll must produce a 10 to succeed.) 
adding Dexterity + Composure. A character’s Initiative helps In an instant action, a player must roll at least one success 
him get a high standing in the Initiative roster. for his character to accomplish a task. In an extended action, 

instant action — A task that takes place within a single the number of successes required (accumulated over a series 
turn. A character can perform only one instant action per of rolls) depends on the task. In an attack roll, each success 
turn, unless he has a Merit or power that lets him do otherwise. produces one point of damage. 

Integrity — A trait representing a character's mental trait — An element on the character sheet. Traits include 
stability. Attributes, Skills, Merits, advantages, anchors, supernatural 

Merit — A character trait representing enhancements or powers, and more.
elements of a character’s background, such as his allies or turn — A three-second period of time. Instant actions 
influence. Merits are measured in dots, but are not always are observed in turns. Combat (a series of instant actions) 
used to determine dice pools. Instead, they represent increas- is observed in consecutive turns as each combatant tries to 
ing degrees of quality or quantity concerning their subject. overcome opponents. 

modifiers — Dice pools are often modified by a number wound — A marked Health point, denoting an injury 
of factors, from bonuses (adding dice) for equipment or ideal from damage. 
conditions to penalties (subtracting dice) for poor conditions. 

21 
Lexicon






“It’s okay, it’s not like I’m alone. Now, goodnight.” Siranush closed the door 
gently, so as not to wake Alan. Mena was sweet, but… well, a lot pushier these last 
few years.

She crept over to the couch, tucked the blanket around Alan, and then padded 
down the hall of her grandmother’s apartment. It had been sweet of him to come 
help her pack after Nana passed away, and she had felt more at ease once he 
arrived. There was something so cold and hostile about the apartment without 
Nana living there. 

Cleaning alone after the wake had left her sleepless and shaking, 
with an angry-looking reflection. She told herself it was because 
Nana’s death was so sudden. She had looked frail in her casket, all 
the muscle of her vigorous age melted away. It felt like a stranger’s 
funeral. But when Sira called Alan, he ran over to keep her company, 
and was now snoring faintly along with the horror movie that was 
supposed to help her relax. She heard a tinny scream and a loud 
snuffle in the living room, and smiled.

She’d taken inventory of this hallway a half dozen times 
already; and there wasn’t much to do until the appraisers 
came tomorrow anyway. But she was too restless to sleep. 
She traced the spiderweb pattern of broken glass in Nana’s 
favorite mirror, and watched her reflected hand ripple along 
the edges. The faster she moved, the further out of sync her 
reflection became. Then suddenly, it stopped. Her reflected 
hand pressed against the glass, far from where her fingers 
lingered. Her face looked canny and hungry and too sharp 
in the low light, and Sira jumped back. She waited for her 
reflection to jump away, too; for the too-slow distortion to 
resolve back into her own image.

It didn’t.
The hand on the other side of the mirror began 

pounding. Silently at first, then distant and building, 
until she saw the glass shake, and crack. Siranush 
staggered away from the mirror and started running back 
down the hall. The Sira-in-the-mirror followed, her fists 
cracking the glass of each window, each mirror, each pane of 
glass. Her fingers reaching through the gaps where shards fell 
away. The hands bled where they were cut; dark, clotting blood, 
swimming with the acid smell of formaldehyde. They kept pushing 
through all around her, grabbing at her sleeves and threading their 
fingers into her hair. Why did Nana have so many mirrors? She 
almost made it back to the living room.

Then her own hands pulled her back into the dark hallway, her 
screams somehow dim, as though muffled by thick layers of glass. 
Sira-in-the-hall pried the bloody hands of Sira-in-the-mirror off her wrist 
and out of her hair. And together they teetered, half in and half out of the 
mirror. Both fell in, and both climbed out of, but one Sira was forced back 
through.

The other dusted the broken glass from her sweater, tucked herself in 
next to Alan, and put a proprietary arm around him. He startled slightly, 
surfacing slowly from a deep sleep. 

“Sira, did I fall asleep? How did the movie end?”
“Don’t worry, baby. She got away.”



The Face  
in the Mirror: 

Characters
As a player in the Chronicles of Darkness, you explore the story and help to 

weave a tale through a character you create. Your character is your means to engage 
with the world.

As a player, it’s your responsibility to portray your character in a way that’s ap-
propriate to her background and context, while fostering the kind of story you want 
to see her in. Consider that moment in a horror movie where you’re at the edge 
of your seat, trying to make decisions for a character who’s about to do something 
dangerous. With your character, you can choose to step back away from the cellar 
door, or to lash out at the monster instead of standing and screaming. Or, you can 
embrace that moment of horror and jump headfirst into the awfulness you know 
is coming. After all, no Storyteller can scare you the way you can scare yourself. 

Creating characters is best done at the table with everyone participating. Stories 
about characters with ties, whether they be social or simply thematic, will work 
much better than a bunch of strangers designed with different types of stories in 
mind. In game terms, you make your character through a series of traits. These 
traits describe her capabilities, her weaknesses, and some of what makes her 
unique. Imagine how many different characters you could describe as “paranormal 
investigators,” “curious students,” or even “truck drivers.” These traits allow you 

“Plot is no more than to define and refine your character’s role in the story. 
footprints left in When coming up with your character, work with the Storyteller and the other 

the snow after your players to figure out what kinds of stories you want to tell, and what characters 
characters have run could best serve that narrative. If your story is about personal horror, a team of 
by on their way to expert martial artists might not be the best fit. However, if you want to tell an 

incredible destinations.” action-packed story of a village set upon by an undead horde brought upon by 
biological tests gone awry, that team could shine. 

-Ray Bradbury,  As you delve into the mystery, the horror, and the drama of the Chronicles 
Zen and  of Darkness, your character earns Beats and Experiences, which can improve her 

the Art of Writing game traits. This allows you further customization, and lets your character grow 
and develop in mechanical terms. You get these Beats through a variety of behav-
iors; for example, you can get them through unfortunate events, from executing 
elaborate actions, or by pursuing character goals. Just like in a book, movie, or 
television show, your character grows as she interacts with the plot. 

Character Creation
The system for creating a character is a simple, step-by-step process to take 

an initial idea for a character, and flesh her out with goals, personality, and the 
game traits that determine what she is capable of. It’s helpful to take a look at the 
character sheet from the back of the book. You can fill out the sheet as you go 
through the steps of creating your character.

Step One: Character Concept
The first step in creating a character is to develop a general idea of who your char-

acter is. The Chronicles of Darkness, on the surface, is a world much like ours. Your 

24 
the face in the mirror-Characters



starting character concept can easily be someone you could character feel proud when he does make the effort. His Vice, 
meet on the street. Try to boil this down to a simple phrase, on the other hand, is the trait that represents the easy way 
like “bored medical student,” “single parent trying to get by,” out, the things that bring the character short-term comfort, 
or “blogger obsessed with unsolved mysteries.” It doesn’t need but never seem to drive him to actually improve.
to be particularly complex, just a good starting point.

In addition to your concept, also consider your charac- Step Three: 
ter’s Aspirations. These are goals that your character wants 
to accomplish, or stories and events that you, as the player, Select Attributes
want to see happen during your character’s story. Thinking 
about your Aspirations early on, as part of your character Now you set your character’s basic capabilities. Attributes 

concept, helps to make sure that your character is active, and are fundamental traits, defining how strong a character is, 

that there are story hooks to get your character involved im- how well she can keep her temper when provoked, or how 

mediately. You can also use Aspirations as a way to connect quickly she can improvise a solution to a problem.

player characters, by giving them similar goals. We’ll talk more A character starts with one dot in each Attribute for 

about Aspirations in their own section, later in this chapter. free. One dot represents someone who is below average in 
that capability, while two dots represent someone average. A 

Step Two: Anchors character with three or four dots is above average or extremely 
talented, while five dots represents the peak of human ability.

Once you have a general idea and some goals for you Attributes are divided into the Mental, Physical, and 
character, you can define a bit more of his personality. You Social categories. For your character, consider which of the 
do this by selecting Anchors. Anchors are those things that categories is most important. What sort of endeavors does 
help a character retain his sense of self and drive his behavior. your character excel at? Once you have picked a primary cat-
For a mortal character in the Chronicles of Darkness, his egory, decide out of the remaining two which is your charac-
Anchors are his Virtue and his Vice. ter’s next-best category. You’ll assign five dots to the Attributes 

For each of your character’s Anchors, decide on a de- in your primary category, four dots to the Attributes in your 
scription of a major personality trait or motivation for your secondary category, and three dots to the Attributes in your 
character: something like Ambition, Honesty, Kindness, or tertiary category.
Greed. For your character’s Virtue, you’ll want to pick a trait It’s worth taking a moment to consider the Attributes and 
that is difficult to act on or easy to ignore, but that makes the how they connect to your character concept. While picking 

25 
CHARACTER CREATION



categories is often easy (an Olympic Athlete probably has 
Physical as her primary category), sometimes picking a less 
obvious category can make for a more interesting character. Size
Step Four: Size Object

Select Skills 1 Handheld object or tool, Rodent
2 Infant, Cat, Sword, Shotgun, Skateboard

Like Attributes, Skills are divided up into the Mental, 
Physical, and Social categories. However, unlike Attributes, 3 Mid-size Dog, Child, Window, Two-handed 

tool, Stool
you do not get a free dot in Skills.

Skills represent applications of your abilities. These are 4 Spear, Teenager, Chair
things you have learned from training, books, or teachers. 5 Adult, Door, Electric scooter
Having no dots in a Skill means that you have no training with 6 Large adult, Deer, Bicycle
it, and are barely capable. One dot means you have cursory 
training or dabble in the Skill, while two dots means that you 7 Alligator, Bear, Coffin
can use the Skill at a professional level. Three dots represents 8 Vault door, Compact car
excellent training or experience, four is outstanding, and five 10 Sports car, Moose
dots means you are one of the absolute best in the world.

Like Attributes, select a primary, secondary, and tertiary 12 Shark, Luxury car
category for your Skills. You have eleven dots to assign for 15 SUV, Elephant
your primary category, seven dots for you secondary, and four 20 Light airplane, Yacht, Semi truck
dots for your tertiary. As always, consider your character and 
concept when assigning dots. Maybe your blogger has two dots 25 Dump truck, Houseboat, Tour bus, Semi with 
in Athletics because he is a marathoner, or your med student trailer
has a dot in Animal Ken from volunteering at a local shelter. 30 Small house, Whale

Step Five: 40 Large house
50 Massive airliner 

Pick Skill Specialties 60 Small apartment building

Skills represent broad categories of training. Someone 80 Large apartment building, Big box store
with the Science Skill is equally familiar with particle phys- 100 Skyscraper, Shopping mall, Stadium
ics, basic chemistry, and genetics. Skill Specialties allow you 
to differentiate more, focusing on a specific area of a Skill 
that your character is more knowledgeable or proficient in.

A character’s Specialties say a lot about her. For example, 
a character with a Socialize Specialty in Formal Events is very Willpower
different from one with a Specialty in Dive Bars. A character’s Willpower score is equal to Resolve + 

Pick three Skill Specialties for your character. The Skill Composure.
descriptions will have some suggested Specialties.

Step Six: Merits Integrity
All mortal characters start with an Integrity of 7.

Merits are important facets of your character that do not 
fall under other traits. A Merit can represent a knack, special Size
training, people your character knows, or even things that he 

All adult human characters are Size 5, unless modified 
owns. They add unique capabilities to your character beyond 

by a Merit.
Attributes and Skills.

You have seven dots you can use to pick Merits. There 
is a list of Merits you can choose from later in this chapter. Speed

A character’s speed is equal to Strength + Dexterity + 5. 

Step Seven: A character can move this many meters in one turn.

Determine Advantages Health
The final step in character creation is calculating Advantages. A character’s Health is Size + Stamina.

Use the following rules to determine the values for these traits.

26 
the face in the mirror-Characters



on spending and regaining Willpower, see Chapter 2). These 
traits are called Anchors. For a mortal character, these 

Character Creation  Anchors are her Virtue and her Vice.

Quick Reference Virtue and Vice
Here are the basic steps for creating a character.

When creating a character, you define her Virtue and 
STEP ONE: CONCEPT Vice. These words describe key aspects of her personality. 

Decide on a concept and three Aspirations for Things like Cruel or Generous work, but a physical descrip-
your character. tion, like Clean wouldn’t. Similarly, you don’t want to pick 

a Virtue or Vice that is covered by an Attribute or Skill. 
STEP TWO: ANCHORS Athletic wouldn’t really make a good Virtue or Vice (though 

Choose a Virtue and a Vice for your character. Competitive probably would). Composed wouldn’t work very 

STEP THREE: ATTRIBUTES well as an Anchor, as Composure is already an Attribute.
A character’s Virtue or Vice isn’t simply indicative of her 

Prioritize categories. You have 5/4/3 dots to morality. Having a Virtue like Good isn’t really appropriate, 
assign to the Attributes within each category. and is kind of boring, to boot. While a character’s Virtue 

STEP FOUR: SKILLS is definitely a positive trait for her, she should absolutely be 
able to fulfill her Virtue while suffering a breaking point at 

Prioritize categories. Distribute 11/7/4 dots the same time (see Integrity, p. 73). Sometimes even our 
among the Skills in the appropriate category. Virtues can drive us to do terrible things.

STEP FIVE: SKILL SPECIALTIES When a character acts in accordance with her Virtue or 
Choose three Skill Specialties. Vice during a scene, she reaffirms her sense of who she is. 

This is a way to regain Willpower during play.
STEP SIX: MERITS It’s a good idea to make sure that everyone is on the same 

Select seven dots of Merits. page with regards to Virtues and Vices, both in terms of what 
they mean for your character, and in terms of everyone being 

STEP SEVEN: ADVANTAGES comfortable with each other’s choices. While you cannot 
Willpower is equal to Resolve + Composure. choose the same trait as both your Virtue and Vice, another 
Integrity is 7. Size is 5. Health is Size + Stamina. character could have a trait as a Virtue that you have as a 
Speed equals Strength + Dexterity + 5. Initiative Vice, such as Ambitious. Also, as your Vice in particular will 
Modifier is Dexterity + Composure. Defense is the come up repeatedly during play, you should make sure that 
lower of Wits or Dexterity, plus Athletics. the Vice you select doesn’t make any of the other players 

uncomfortable.
A character’s Anchors will likely stay the same for most 

of a chronicle. However, Virtue and Vice can change if the 
Initiative Modifier character undergoes an event that alters her life or personality.

Initiative Modifier is equal to your character’s Dexterity 
+ Composure. Virtue

A character’s Virtue is her higher calling, the personality 
Defense trait that represents who she is when she is being her best. 

Behaving in accordance with Virtue gives a character a sense 
Defense is equal to the lower of your character’s Wits or 

of satisfaction and re-affirms her sense of self. Acting on a 
Dexterity, plus his Athletics Skill.

Virtue is difficult, however.

Finishing Touches Example Virtues
Check back over your character, and make sure that you 

The following are some possible Virtues for characters. 
have spent all of your points the way you wanted to. Make 

This is not an exhaustive list, it is merely intended to help 
sure you’ve recorded Aspirations and Advantages, and that 

you in coming up with your own Anchors for your character.
the character fits the concept you had. Now you’re ready to go!

Competitive: Your character always pushes herself to excel 
and be the best at whatever she does. It’s not about defeating 

Anchors others, but about the rush she gets from honest competition, 
and the thrill of knowing that she pushed herself further and 

All Chronicles of Darkness characters have defining per- faster to stay ahead of her rivals. Regain Willpower when your 
sonality traits. These traits not only tell a character who she is, character honestly competes with someone who outclasses 
but also allow her to regain Willpower (for more information her, for stakes that she will feel if she loses.

27 
ANCHORS



Generous: Your character feels at his best when giving to to accomplish. They’re also statements about the sort of 
others. He may give to charity or simply lend items to friends stories you want to tell about your character.
with no questions asked. A generous character may be taken Accomplishing an Aspiration is one of the main ways you 
advantage of sometimes, but he isn’t in it for thanks or hope can earn Beats to improve your character. You should aim for 
of repayment. He gives because other people need. Regain accomplishing about one Aspiration per session. If you are 
Willpower when your character is deprived of an important playing a one-shot, all of your Aspirations should be focused, 
resource or put at risk because of his Generous nature. short-term goals that you could potentially complete within 

Just: A Just character is driven by a sense of fairness and that session. If you are playing in a long-running chronicle, 
justice. She wants everyone to get what they deserve, and will then choosing long-term goals is okay. Ideally, you should 
stick her neck out to make sure it happens. Regain Willpower have a mix of Aspirations, some of which can be resolved 
when the character sets her own goals aside in order to make in one session, and some which will take many sessions to 
certain that justice is done. accomplish. If you know that your character is going to start 

Loyal: Loyalty to a person or a group is your character’s out hitchhiking, “Find a place to stay the night” is a perfectly 
guide. This group could be other PCs, a company, a mentor reasonable Aspiration. If she recently had a fight with her 
or family member, their country, or any other group that girlfriend, “Reconcile with Jane” is a fine Aspiration.
makes sense. The character is not necessarily foolish or blind Another important thing to consider when deciding on 
to the flaws of their chosen group. The character regains your Aspirations is that you want them to be active goals. 
Willpower when refusing to act against the group’s interests They have to be something that you need to do, rather than 
puts him at risk. something that you need to avoid. For example, “Don’t get 

drunk” wouldn’t be a very good Aspiration for a character, but 

Vice “Go a day without taking a drink” could be, if your character 
would find this to be a struggle.

Vice is a character’s short-term comfort. It is the easy way Aspirations give your character life and direction beyond 
out, the personality trait she takes comfort in to avoid con- the scenario dreamed up by the Storyteller. They make your 
fronting her actual feelings or problems. Like Virtue, acting character feel more real, give the Storyteller hooks to get him 
on a Vice reinforces the character’s sense of herself, even if it involved in the story, and establish what your character does 
is self-destructive. It still helps relieve stress and allows her to if there isn’t an immediate crisis in front of him.
refresh herself, but it’s not healthy behavior in the long term. It is also okay to select Aspirations that your character 

Example Vices doesn’t want, but that you want to see happen to the char-
acter. For example, your character almost certainly doesn’t 

Ambitious: Your character wants to get ahead, to move want to be kidnapped by the man with the gray face that 
up the ladder – no matter what the cost. She wants advance- used to be her father, but that might be a story that you are 
ment, rank, and authority in advance of what she actually interested in seeing. You can choose Aspirations that repre-
has earned. Regain Willpower when your character jockeys sent you trying and failing to do something. You can have an 
for position or tries to advance socially instead of pursuing Aspiration like “Fail to find proof of the existence of ghosts,” 
a more useful activity. or “Fail to reconcile with Jane,” if you think that it will make 

Arrogant: Your character is good at something, and makes a more interesting story. Even though the character has failed 
sure everyone knows it. He defines himself by being “better” at what she wants, you as the player still get the reward for 
than those around him. This goes beyond justifiable pride completing that Aspiration.
in an ability. The character regains Willpower when he takes Aspirations are one of the best ways for the players to 
an opportunity to lord his superiority over someone else. signal to the Storyteller what sort of stories they want to 

Competitive: You character needs to win. Nothing makes be part of. So, Storytellers, be sure to pay attention to what 
her happier than crossing the finish line first, and nothing Aspirations your players have selected. If you were planning 
makes her angrier than losing. She may even be willing to on a suspenseful, low-key session with little overt supernatural 
cheat in order to get her victory. Regain Willpower when the influence, it might be a problem if all of your players have 
character indulges in a competition that distracts from other, chosen Aspirations like “destroy a supernatural threat,” or 
more pressing, matters. “see a monster with my own eyes.” It doesn’t mean you have 

Greedy: Your character wants to hoard resources, keep- to change your plans completely, but you may need to tweak 
ing them for himself in case they are useful someday. Regain the session a bit to allow for some details that fit with the 
Willpower when you take an advantage for yourself, denying Aspirations a little better. Or you can sit down and talk with 
it to another character. the players, and make sure that you are all on the same page 

with regards to the story that you are trying to tell.

Aspirations Changing Aspirations
Chronicles of Darkness characters start with three When you first make your character, if you are not entirely 

Aspirations. Aspirations are goals that your character wishes certain what Aspirations to pick, don’t worry about it. You 

28 
the face in the mirror-Characters



impossible, in the Chronicles of Darkness). Or maybe you 
find out that your character’s father is somehow responsible 

Sample Short-Term  for the eyeless, grinning thing that pulled your mother into 
that grove of trees the night she disappeared. At that point, 

Aspirations you may not want to reconcile any more.
Find a new job. If an Aspiration no longer makes sense for a character, a 

player can change the Aspiration between chapters with the 
Find out why my sister hasn’t called me back. Storyteller’s approval. This isn’t an excuse to ditch a goal that 
Get beat up by the school bully. is taking too long to accomplish, but rather is an option to 

Go on a date with the new guy at work. keep a character’s goals in line with their behavior and the 
overall direction of the story.

Indulge my addiction.
Mug someone.
Put myself in mortal danger. Breaking Points

When a character performs certain actions or endures 
See a ghost. certain experiences, he might reach a breaking point. A 
Show myself that I’m not cursed. breaking point simply means that what a character has done 

or seen has outstripped his ability to rationalize or handle it. 
A breaking point can fall into one of the following 

Sample Long-Term  categories:

Aspirations •  The character performs an action that either violates 
his personal moral code or that is considered unac-

Become a parent. ceptable in society. 
Destroy the beast that killed my lover. •  The character witnesses something traumatic, terrifying, 
Discover what happened when my father or that rattles his understanding of the world. 
disappeared.
Figure out what happened during those weeks I •  The character is the victim of a supernatural attack, 

can’t remember. whether physical, emotional, or mental.

Find my soul mate. Breaking points are somewhat subjective, obviously. A 
homicide detective with 30 years of experience in seeing 

Find out what was really living in the culvert near dead bodies and hearing confessions of killers has a some-
my childhood home. what higher tolerance for human depravity than a sheltered 
Prove that my mother isn’t crazy. 20-something in a middle-class liberal arts college. During 

character creation, it might be advisable for the Storyteller 
Put my daughter’s ghost to rest. to come up with several hypothetical situations, so that the 
Take over the company. player can determine if, in her judgment, those situations 

would be breaking points. 
Note that a breaking point is not necessarily something 

that the character considers wrong. A character might kill 
can try to come up with a few basic ones, such as the simple, someone in a clear-cut, unambiguous case of self-defense, but 
easily-accomplished Aspirations mentioned earlier. Or go the experience is probably still a breaking point, even if the 
ahead and leave a few of your Aspiration slots blank for player (and the character!) feels the act was entirely justified. 
now, and define them while you play the first few sessions. Actions take a toll on the psyche, regardless of whether 
Aspirations are not meant to be a straightjacket or a source the actions were righteous.
of stress, but a tool to help you play the character that you During character creation, the player should answer the 
want to play. following five questions. Each question provides a breaking 

A character’s Aspirations will also likely change over the point for the character. If, during the character creation 
course of the chronicle. If you accomplish an Aspiration, for process, additional breaking points become apparent to the 
example, you should replace it with a new Aspiration after that player, add them to the list. There’s no limit to how many 
session. This is a good thing to work on in between sessions. breaking points a character can have. The list isn’t a strict list 

Sometimes Aspirations are no longer relevant to a charac- anyway; the Storyteller can stipulate that a given occurrence 
ter, even if they haven’t actually been achieved. For example, is a breaking point regardless of whether or not it appears on 
if your character has an Aspiration of “reconcile with my the player’s list. However, the better-defined your character’s 
estranged father,” it’s hard to accomplish if he is murdered outlook is, the better your Storyteller’s understanding will 
in the fourth session of the game (though certainly not be of what constitutes a breaking point for that character. 

29 
Breaking Points



•  What is the worst thing your character has ever done? This categories. If a rule refers to a “Physical action” or a “Social 
doesn’t have to be anything dastardly. If the worst roll,” it is referring to an action that uses an Attribute from 
thing your character ever did was steal money from one of these categories.
his mother’s purse and lie to cover it up, that’s fine. All characters start with one dot in each Attribute, which 

	 What’s important here is to consider something that is below average for that Attribute. Two dots represents 
your character did that made him hate himself. The average ability, three dots is above average, and four dots is 
superlative “worst” is something that the character  someone who is truly exceptional. A character with five dots 
would apply. Choose a breaking point based on the in an Attribute has reached the peak of human potential 
answer to this question. within that ability.

•  What is the worst thing your character can imagine himself Mental Attributes
doing? We imagine ourselves in various scenarios to test 
our own self-image against a hypothetical situation. Mental Attributes represent a characters mental resilience, 
When children do it, it’s called imaginative play, but intellect, and acuity.
it fills the same niche. What can you can character 
reasonably see himself doing, but still know that it Intelligence
would be wrong? Can your character imagine kill- Intelligence is your character’s book smarts and ability to 
ing someone in self-defense? Torturing someone for process data. It represents memory, general knowledge, and 
information? How about robbing a store with a gun? ability to solve complex and difficult problems.

• Attribute Tasks: Memorizing (Intelligence + Composure, 
  What is the worst thing your character can imagine someone instant action)

else doing? Of course, we all know that people are 
capable of some hideous atrocities. What tops your 
character’s list? Serial murder? Rape? Torture? Spree Wits
killing? If your character is extremely sheltered or Wits represents quick thinking and improvisation. A char-
misanthropic, he might have a skewed view, here; he acter with a high Wits responds quickly to new information 
might hang on to some lofty, cerebral notion of “dis- and situations. It also represents perception and the ability 
honor” or “betrayal” as the nadir of human behavior. to notice details and subtle tells.

Attribute Tasks: Perception (Wits + Composure, reflexive ac-
•  What has your character forgotten? In the Chronicles of tion), Catching a dropped object (Wits + Dexterity, instant action)

Darkness, it’s next to impossible to grow up without 
any exposure to the supernatural. Decide what your Resolve
character saw and forgot. Did she see a vampire take 
the form of smoke and vanish? A man turn into a Resolve represents your character’s patience, concentra-
wolf? Maybe she caught a glimpse of an impossible tion, and determination. A high Resolve allows a character 
nightmarescape through a door that should never to focus despite distractions or discouragement.
have been propped open? Describe this scene in as Attribute Tasks: Meditation (Resolve + Composure, 
much detail as you can. This is a breaking point that extended action), Staying Awake (Resolve + Stamina, instant 
already occurred, but it helps set a benchmark for action)
what your character would have to see in order to 
experience one now. Physical Attributes

•  What is the most traumatic thing that has ever happened Physical Attributes reflect a character’s body control and 
to your character? No one goes through life with no fitness.
trauma. Your character might have been mugged, 
beaten as a child, in a serious car accident, been kid- Strength
napped by a parent during a divorce, survived a life- Strength is a character’s muscular power and ability to use 
threatening disease, attempted suicide, been attacked the force of her body. It is used for a large number of physical 
by a supernatural (or natural!) creature, or any number tasks, and is important for most applications of violence.
of other traumatic experiences. The goal here, again, Attribute Tasks: Holding up a heavy object (Strength + 
isn’t to make a traumatized character. It’s to set a bar. Stamina, extended action)

Attributes Dexterity
Dexterity represents hand-eye coordination, agility, and 

Attributes are the basic abilities that every character pos- physical speed. A character with a high Dexterity has fast 
sesses, and are the foundation for most rolls. There are nine reactions, a good sense of balance, and accurate control of 
Attributes, split between the Mental, Physical, and Social physical force.

30 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Attribute Task: Maintain balance (Dexterity + Composure, If your character has an applicable Specialty when you 
reflexive action) are rolling a Skill, you gain a +1 modifier, allowing you to 

roll an additional die.
Stamina

Stamina is your character’s general fitness and health. It Untrained Skills
is used for sustained effort, as well as determining how much A character who has no dots in a Skill can generally still 
physical punishment your body can take. attempt to use it. However, there is a penalty due to the 

Attribute Tasks: Resisting Interrogation (Stamina + character’s complete unfamiliarity with the Skill. For Physical 
Resolve, reflexive action) and Social Skills, this penalty is -1. For Mental Skills, this 

penalty is -3.

Social Attributes
Social Attributes reflect your character’s ability to navigate Mental Skills

social situations and deal with others. Mental Skills generally represent knowledge, book 
learning, and understanding of facts or procedure. They 

Presence cover things like remembering a fact, searching for a clue, 
or diagnosing an illness. Mental Skills are often gained 

Presence is a character’s raw charisma, assertiveness, and 
through formal training, and a character may have certifi-

ability to command. Characters with a high Presence domi-
cates, degrees, or doctorates in her area of study. However, 

nate a room and are adept at changing people’s thoughts 
the rating in the Skill does not necessarily map to a certain 

and moods.
Attribute Tasks: level of education.

 Air of authority (Presence + Intelligence, 
Mental Skills are commonly paired with Mental 

instant action)
Attributes. However, they are sometimes used with Physical 

Manipulation or Social Attributes. For example, repairing the wiring in a 
broken CB radio requires a Dexterity + Crafts roll.

Manipulation represents your character’s ability to choose 
his words, mask his intentions, and convince others to go Academics
along with his ideas.

Attribute Tasks: Academics represents general higher education and 
 Poker Face (Manipulation + Composure, 

knowledge of arts and humanities. It covers topics like his-
reflexive action)

tory, language, literature, law, and economics. It is a very 

Composure broad Skill that covers general knowledge in all of these 
areas, but Skill Specialties can be used to represent a specific 

Composure is a character’s ability to keep control of her focus. The Academics Skill often represents the amount 
emotions and resist others’ manipulations. It also represents of schooling a character has. However, some characters 
poise, dignity, and the ability to keep a level head when under are self-taught or have learned a great deal about relevant 
fire (metaphorically or literally). topics without actually setting foot on a college campus. 

Attribute Tasks: Perception (Wits + Composure, reflexive Also, some people with advanced degrees pay no attention 
action) to topics outside their area of expertise, and have a low 

rating in Academics.

Skills Sample actions: Recall historical facts (Intelligence + 
Academics), Research (Resolve + Academics), Translation 
(Intelligence + Academics)

Skills are learned and practiced abilities, rather than the innate Sample Specialties: English Literature, History, Law, 
abilities that Attributes represent. Skills reflect a character’s origins Linguistics, Research
and interests, and can be acquired in many ways, from institution- Sample contacts: Rare Book Dealer, Law Professor, Head 
alized learning to hands-on experience. Skills are divided into the Librarian
same Mental, Physical, and Social categories as Attributes.

Levels:
Skill Specialties •	 Novice: Someone with a basic knowledge of his-

Skills are very broad abilities, representing whole fields of tory, a high school graduate or college student. 
knowledge or training. A Skill Specialty is a more focused ap- A character at this level knows how to conduct 
plication of a Skill, representing a specific subcategory of the effective research and probably did well in school.
Skill that the character is particularly talented or trained in.

Skill Specialties allow you to personalize your character ••	 Professional: A PhD student, a teacher, or some-
more. Two characters with very similar Skills can feel very one who is well-read enough to have a solid grasp 
different in play, if they have different Specialties. on a number of academic fields. A character at this 

31 
Mental Skills



level can recall details about many different topics, •••	 Experienced: The character has excellent training 
and understands how to find more information and talent, or has been working with computers 
on subjects that he does not immediately recall. for a while. A character at this level is extremely 

adept at finding the information she needs, even 
•••	 Experienced: Someone with an excellent general when someone skilled has taken steps to hide it. 

education, and high expertise in one or two areas As a hacker, she can break her way into the files 
(generally represented with Skill Specialties). She of companies that have solid security.
is a college professor or PhD, or someone who is 
a voracious reader. ••••	 Expert: An expert in computer theory. The char-

acter can find extremely obscure information by 
••••	 Expert: A PhD at a prestigious school or an correlating data from many sources, and can track 

acknowledged expert. Someone with extensive down just about any irregularity in a computer’s 
knowledge and experience with conducting re- files. If she is a hacker, then she has the knowledge 
search, or a self-taught polymath and genius. He and patience to get into government and even 
can probably teach master classes on a number military systems.
of different topics, and is up-to-date on the latest 
ideas within many different fields. ••••• 	Master:  A character at this level is one of the best 

in the world. She has worked with the absolute 
••••• 	Master: One of the top minds in academia, the cutting edge in computer technology, and can 

acknowledged expert in his field. A walking break into pretty much any computer system in 
Wikipedia, with a fact for just about any occasion. the world. No information is safe from her.
The character’s memory and breadth of knowledge 
are astounding. Crafts

Computer The Crafts Skill represents a character’s knowledge of 
repairing, designing, and creating things. It covers tasks like 

Almost everyone in the modern day can turn on a rebuilding a car engine, laying a foundation for a house, or 
computer, use the internet, and perform basic searches. sewing clothing. It also has some overlap with Expression 
This Skill represents a character’s ability beyond that level. for purposes of creating paintings or sculpture. In general, 
Having the Computer Skill allows the character to develop Crafts should be used when you are trying to make some-
programs, diagnose and repair major software and hardware thing that is accurate (a scale model, an eye-witness sketch, 
problems, and perform more carefully focused and effective or a reconstruction of a damaged manuscript) or useful for 
searches for data. It can also be used for things like digging a specific task, as opposed to something that is being created 
into a file system, finding hidden or encrypted files, cracking to be beautiful or convey emotion.
encryption, hacking into computer systems, or sabotaging A character using the Crafts Skill will generally need 
computer networks. specific tools and materials. They have the knowledge to 

Sample actions: Hack into a computer system (Intelligence make something, but they usually cannot do it with their 
+ Computer), Internet and database searches (Wits + bare hands. However, this generally should not cause them 
Computer), Programming (Intelligence + Computer) problems unless they are in a situation where the tools or 

Sample Specialties: Data Retrieval, Digital Security, materials are rare or difficult to access. 
Hacking, Programming, User Interface Design Sample actions: Look for flaws (Wits + Crafts), Design 

Sample contacts: AI Researcher, Hardcore Computer object (Intelligence + Crafts), Repair item (Dexterity + Crafts)
Gamer, White Hat Hacker Sample Specialties: Automotive, Carpentry, Jury Rigging, 
Levels: Sculpting, Welding

Sample contacts: Automotive Engineer, “Makerspace” 
•	 Novice: A character at this level has probably Enthusiast, Police Sketch Artist

used computers more extensively than the average 
person. She has a basic grasp of programming, can  •	 Novice: A character at this level can perform basic 
handle complicated searches, and can find and automotive repair and maintenance like replac-
interpret files that were hidden or encrypted by ing brakes, oil, and belts. He can make simple 
the average (unskilled) user. repairs and fix plumbing around the house. He 

understands how to read and create blueprints or 
••	 Professional: The character could be an entry level design diagrams.

programmer or IT professional. The character has 
a solid grasp of programming principles and can ••	 Professional: A character at this level can produce 
perform more elaborate computer tasks easily. She high quality and professional blueprints and de-
can hack relatively unsecure networks and personal signs. She can perform extensive repairs of cars and 
computers. other vehicles, work as a professional handyman, 

32 
the face in the mirror-Characters



or work on a construction crew for anything from searching, but could potentially see something out of place 
a house to a high-rise. or unusual. Investigation is a Skill that the character actively 

uses to find clues and information and create a more concrete 
•••	 Experienced: A character at this level is a very picture of the situation.

talented builder or architect. He can design and Sample actions: Examine a crime scene (Wits + 
build a house from the ground up, completely Investigation), Identify a pattern (Wits + Investigation), Solve 
rebuild a car, and handle industrial electrical and a riddle (Intelligence + Investigation)
plumbing for office complexes. Sample Specialties: Crime Scenes, Cryptography, 

•••• Dreams, Forensic Accounting, Riddles
	 Expert: This character can build just about any 

Sample contacts: Conspiracy Buff, Medical Examiner, 
design she can imagine. She can weld just about 

Private Investigator
anything, build a new car from scratch, or machine 
precision parts. Levels:

••••• 	Master:  This character can repair anything, •	 Novice: The character is a good armchair detective 
or build working devices from the scraps other and excels at puzzles, riddles, and brainteasers.
people throw out. He is a da Vinci, able to draw ••	 Professional: At this level, a character is very good 
stunningly realistic diagrams or design fantastic at putting details together to form a larger picture. 
devices. Someone who works as a coroner or crime lab 

attendant is probably at this level.
Investigation

•••	 Experienced: The character has an excellent eye 
Investigation is a character’s ability to find and put to- for details that most would overlook, impressing 

gether clues and solve mysteries and puzzles. It represents even experienced detectives. He fills out crossword 
the ability to think laterally and make useful intuitive leaps, puzzles in pen and solves riddles without breaking 
find meaningful patterns in confusion, and draw conclusions a sweat.
from the available data.

Using this Skill is different than the Perception Attribute ••••	 Expert: A character at this level of Investigation has 
task that can be found under Wits and Composure. abilities that seem almost supernatural. She can see 
Perception is typically checked when a character is not actively connections between details that seem completely 

33 
Mental Skills



separate, make amazing intuitive leaps, and can which stories are likely to be actual supernatural events and 
easily see patterns in massive amounts of data. which are just rumors. That said, there are a lot of strange 

things out there, and many of them defy easy categoriza-
••••• 	Master:  Sherlock Holmes. This character’s inves- tion. The Occult Skill doesn’t necessarily give a character 

tigative instincts are perfect, and no clue escapes a line on the absolute “truth” about what’s going on, but 
his notice. instead represents an array of knowledge about encounters 

and theories that others have had, and the ability to build 
Medicine on those theories herself.

Sample actions: Debunk a fake (Intelligence + Occult), 
Medicine is a character’s knowledge of the human Identify a sliver of truth (Wits + Occult), Relate similar myths 

body and the medical techniques used to keep it healthy. It (Intelligence + Occult)
represents a practical and applicable knowledge of biology, Sample Specialties: Eastern European Folktales, Ghosts, 
anatomy, and chemistry. A character with the Medicine Skill Mothman Sightings, Psychic Phenomena, Urban Legends
can use it to treat wounds and diseases, diagnose illness, apply Sample contacts: Anthropology Professor, Neo-Pagan 
first aid, or even perform surgery. Author, Weird Hermit Down the Street

Sample actions: Diagnosis (Wits + Medicine), Perform 
surgery (Dexterity + Medicine), Treat disease (Intelligence Levels:
+ Medicine) •	 Novice: This character is scratching the surface of 

Sample Specialties: Cardiology, First Aid, Pathology, the strange and creepy stories out there. She has 
Pharmacology, Surgery heard of many different phenomena, and is aware 

Sample contacts: Bio-Tech Company Researcher, Chronic of many obvious fakes and debunked stories, as 
Patient, EMT well as some of the more plausible tales.
Levels:

••	 Professional: This level of Occult represents 
•	 Novice: A student or someone with basic medical someone who has done a great deal of research 

training. At this level, a character can perform first into folklore, myth, and urban legends, and can 
aid and stabilize injured people, identify common find slivers of truth in what he has read. He has 
diseases, and care for serious (but non-critical) injuries. a solid understanding of major stories, and can 

identify and disregard many false claims.
••	 Professional: A character with two dots in 

Medicine can work as an EMT, nurse, or other •••	 Experienced: A character with this level of Occult 
practitioner with a good general knowledge of has been working with weird things for a while, 
Medicine. She can handle emergency treatment, and is very good at sifting actual facts and useful 
administer medication and care for patients, and information from rumors and stories. She may 
identify most conditions and disease. have seen a variety of strange things herself, or she 

may simply be very good at recognizing common 
•••	 Experienced: The character can work as a doctor, patterns in various legends.

specialist, or surgeon. She can treat most illness 
and injuries and care for people with serious or ••••	 Expert: A character with four dots in Occult is 
obscure health problems. very tuned into the strange, and can remember a 

number of obscure and useful pieces of informa-
••••	 Expert:  A character at this level is one of the best tion about just about any odd occurrence. He 

doctors in the region, possibly even the country. may well have pieces of the truth about various 
He can diagnose and treat obscure conditions, and supernatural creatures, and is very good at putting 
can handle just about any medical emergency that those pieces together.
comes his way.

••••• 	Master:  At this level of Occult, the character is 
••••• 	Master:  The character is one of the top doctors able to almost unfailingly identify actual super-

or surgeons in the world. She can perform near natural events and creatures. Even when running 
miracles, and has knowledge of pretty much any into a completely new phenomenon, her instincts 
illness or injury she comes across. are impeccable.

Occult Politics
The Occult Skill is a character’s knowledge of myth, Politics represents a character’s knowledge of political 

folktales, and urban legends about the strange things that bodies, figures, and issues. It helps a character to navigate 
exist in the dark corners of the world. Occult can help a bureaucracies and play the political game to get what he 
character separate fiction and myth from fact and determine wants. He knows how to follow the money and how to play 

34 
the face in the mirror-Characters



rivals off each other. A character with this knowledge 
may have run for office, worked for the government, or 
may simply be a follower of local politics.

Sample actions:  Identify authority (Wits + Politics), 
Navigate bureaucracy (Resolve + Politics), Mudslinging 
(Manipulation + Politics)

Sample Specialties:  Bureaucracy, Local Politics, 
National Politics, Scandals, Specific Political Party

Sample contacts:  Personal Assistant to the 
Governor, Political Blogger, Union Leader
Levels:
•	 Novice: This character knows the issues, both 

major and minor, and follows important 
players in the political sphere (both actual 
candidates, and some of the people behind 
them). He could be an insightful amateur 
blogger, or simply an exceptionally tuned in 
voter.

••	 Professional: A character at this level knows 
how to work within the system, and under-
stands the official organizational structure 
very well. Low-level bureaucrats and lobbyists 
generally have this level of the Politics Skill.

•••	 Experienced: At this rank, a character knows 
a great deal about political figures, who their 
allies are, and what issues they care about. He 
could easily be a mover and shaker himself, 
someone who can shape political agendas 
behind the scenes.

••••	 Expert: The character is a master at dealing 
with all sorts of political structures. She 
understands not only the official structure, 
but who is actually in charge, and where to 
apply pressure to accomplish her goals, often 
without anyone being aware of her manipula-
tions of the system.

••••• 	Master:  The character knows all the players, 
what they really want, and where the bodies 
are buried.

Science
Science is a character’s understanding of the natural 

and physical sciences. It includes subjects like biology, 
physics, chemistry, geology, and meteorology. Science 
is useful for understanding how the world works. It 
also helps characters make excellent use of resources 
and helps with the design of and theory behind many 
items that can be made using Crafts. A character with 
a high Science Skill can explain what chemicals and 
proportions are needed to make an explosive, or de-
termine the best materials for making a cage to hold a 
strange creature.

35 
Mental Skills



Sample actions:  Assess variables (Intelligence + Science), Sample actions: Acrobatics (Dexterity + Athletics), 
Perform experiment (Wits + Science), Recall formula Climbing (Strength + Athletics), Running (Stamina + 
(Intelligence + Science) Athletics)

Sample Specialties: Biology, Chemistry, Genetics, Optics, Sample Specialties: Acrobatics, Basketball, Marathon 
Particle Physics Running, Rock Climbing, Throwing

Sample contacts: Experimental Physicist, Geology Sample contacts: Parkour Enthusiast, Physical Therapist, 
Professor, Mad Inventor Running Club Buddy
Levels: Levels:
•	 Novice: The character is a hobbyist or knowledge- •	 Novice: A character at this level is fit and takes 

able student of the sciences. She has a basic under- good care of himself. He may go for runs regularly, 
standing of scientific principles and theories, can constantly play sports with friends, be a regular 
perform basic experiments, and can make practical backpacker or hiker, or just make an effort to stay 
use of basic physics and chemistry (designing a in shape.
slingshot or making black powder, for example).

••	 Professional: At this level of Athletics, the charac-
••	 Professional: The character could work as a ter is serious about his fitness and activity. At the 

researcher or teacher. At this level, the character very least, he is playing sports and training regu-
has an excellent grasp of science concepts, knows larly, or performing a serious workout regimen. 
how to perform experiments and understand the He could probably play minor league or low-level 
data, and can apply concepts in novel ways. professional sports.

•••	 Experienced: A character with this level in Science •••	 Experienced: An athlete at this level could cer-
knows about up-to-date theories and concepts, tainly play professionally, and if she does, she has 
and is able to explore advanced new concepts and probably made a name for herself. Her general 
theories. levels of fitness and ability are noticeably above 

average.
••••	 Expert: Top of his field. At this level, the character 

is researching cutting edge concepts and working ••••	 Expert: Olympic athletes might have this level of 
with some of the best scientists in the world. athletic ability. A character at this level can com-

pete on national teams and contend with the best 
••••• 	Master:  The character is an Einstein, Curie, or in the world.

Hawking. She is on the verge of revolutionary 
concepts, and is at the apex of her field. ••••• 	Master:  An Athletics Skill at this level represents 

gold medal winners, world record holders, and the 

Physical Skills absolute best, fittest, and most talented people in 
the world.

Physical Skills are those Skills that represent the applica-
tion of force, endurance, or coordination. They are generally Brawl
learned through practice and personal experience, rather 
than extensive schooling. The Brawl Skill is the fine art of hurting another person 

While these Skills are usually paired with Physical with no weapons other than the character’s own body. It 
Attributes, they can be rolled with other Attributes as well. can represent martial arts training, bar fight experience, or 
Casing a building, for example, uses Wits + Larceny simply a bad temper and a willingness to hurt others. It covers 

throwing punches and kicks, but also things like grappling, 
Athletics throws, head butts, and blocking in hand-to-hand combat. 

Brawl is generally rolled with Strength in a hand-to-hand fight.
Athletics broadly covers a number of different areas of A character who is well trained in a specific style of combat 

physical ability. It represents training in specific sports, from may have that represented with a Fighting Style Merit (see 
kayaking or parkour to professional sports like basketball or Merits, later in this chapter).
football. It can be used with any general application of physi- Sample actions: Breaking boards (Strength + Brawl), 
cal power and coordination, such as running a marathon, Intimidating display (Presence + Brawl), Identifying a fighting 
jumping between buildings, climbing a fence, or dodging style (Intelligence + Brawl)
threats. It also determines a character’s ability with thrown Sample Specialties: Blocking, Boxing, Grappling, Muay 
weapons in a fight, and adds to Defense to determine if Thai, Throws
the character is hit in a fight. Just about any Chronicles of Sample contacts: Club Bouncer, Self-defense Teacher, 
Darkness character is likely to find some use for the Athletics Sparring Partner
Skill. Sometimes, the only reasonable response is to run away.

36 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Levels: ••	 Professional: A character at this level could easily 
work as a truck driver or cabby. She has driven in 

•	 Novice: This level of Brawl represents knowledge just about every type of condition at one time or 
of self-defense, a good situational awareness, and another. A pilot at this level can fly pretty much 
enough experience (or the right attitude) to get any private aircraft, and could probably fly a com-
the character through many violent situations. mercial jet in a pinch.

••	 Professional: A character with two dots of Brawl •••	 Experienced: Skilled race car drivers and stuntmen 
has been in many fights or has trained for a num- have this level of Drive. A pilot at this level might 
ber of years. She knows how to handle herself in work professionally flying commercial jet liners.
a fight.

••••	 Expert: At this level, a character can handle a high-
•••	 Experienced: Extremely well-trained fighters or speed chase in downtown traffic or drive through 

veterans of dozens of back-alley brawls have this a war zone without blinking. Pilots at this level 
rank. A character at this level can probably teach can handle fighter jets.
other martial artists, compete in tournaments, 
and handle just about anybody who tries to pick ••••• 	Master:  There is no vehicle on earth that this 
a fight with her at the local bar. character can’t drive.

••••	 Expert: Special forces soldiers or champion MMA 
fighters have Brawl at this level. A character Firearms
with this level can handle himself in almost any Firearms represents a character’s familiarity and comfort 
situation. with guns. It reflects her ability to shoot, maintain, and 

identify any type of personal firearm. This Skill cover pistols, 
••••• 	Master:  A character at this level is among the best shotguns, assault rifles, and other weapons that can be car-

in the world. She could be an unstoppable bar room ried by one person. The Firearms Skill also covers the use of 
brawler, a renowned teacher of multiple martial weapons like bows and crossbows.
arts, or one of the deadliest killers on Earth. This Skill can represent formal training provided to the 

police and military. Criminals, hunters, and gun enthusiasts 
Drive are also likely to have the Firearms Skill, due to hands-on 

Drive is a broad Skill used for the operation of any mo- familiarity.

torized vehicle. It is used for maneuvering and controlling Depending on where you are in the world, guns can 

automobiles, motorcycles, and even boats. It’s assumed that be fairly common or highly restricted. Characters with the 

pretty much any modern character can perform basic driv- Firearms Skill generally understand local gun laws, and are 

ing under safe conditions, even without this Skill. However, good at obtaining Firearms when necessary.

if a character gets involved in a high-speed chase or tries to Sample actions: Identifying a gun (Intelligence + 

elude a tail, Drive is used to determine how well they handle Firearms), Pick a good firing position (Wits + Firearms), Trick 

themselves. The Drive Skill is needed when the character is in shooting (Dexterity + Firearms)

a dangerous or stressful situation, is trying to do something Sample Specialties: Fast-Draw, Handguns, Rif les, 

tricky, or is driving at very high speeds. Shotguns, Sniping

If you want your character to be capable of piloting air- Sample contacts: Gun store owner, Local law enforce-

craft as well, you need to take the Skill Specialty in Piloting. ment, Sharpshooter

A character without the Piloting Specialty is considered Levels:
untrained if he attempts to operate a plane or other aircraft. •	 Novice: A character at this level has spent time 

Sample actions: Pursuit (Dexterity + Drive), Stunt-Flying at the range, and understands basic maintenance 
(Dexterity + Drive), Tailing (Wits + Drive) and safety. She may be a very good shot on the 

Sample Specialties: Evasion, Motorcycles, Piloting, range, but is unused to shooting in the chaos of 
Racing, Stunts an actual conflict.

Sample contacts: Bush Pilot, Mechanic, Street Racer
Levels: ••	 Professional: This character is a decent shot, and 

shoots on a regular basis. He may be a hunter, or 
•	 Novice: A character with this level of the Skill perhaps a law enforcement officer who keeps his 

keeps his head when driving in dangerous weather skills up, but has rarely fired his weapon in the 
or treacherous road conditions, and anyone trying line of duty.
to run him off the road will find it surprisingly 
difficult. With the Piloting Specialty, the character •••	 Experienced: A character at this level knows a great 
can handle small, private aircraft. deal about guns, and is an excellent shot. She has 

37 
Physical Skills



almost certainly shot someone in an actual fight, ••••• 	Master:  A character at this level is Harry Houdini. 
likely more than once. She can get out of any lock, break into secure sec-

tions of the Pentagon, and take the glasses off of 
••••	 Expert: Snipers, sharpshooters, and highly-graded a man’s face without him noticing.

military shooters are generally at this Skill rank. A 
character with four dots in Firearms is an uncan-
nily good shot, whether on the range or in the Stealth
field. Stealth is a character’s ability to stay hidden, unseen, and 

unheard. It covers sneaking around in the shadows, blending 
••••• 	Master:  There are only a few dozen marksmen into a crowd, using a disguise to appear as just another bystand-

in the world who can match a character with this er in the background, or taking advantage of an appropriately 
level of Firearms. She can shoot any gun under timed distraction. Any means a character uses to avoid being 
just about any condition and have a good chance noticed by those who are looking for her will use this Skill.
of hitting her target. Sample actions: Losing a tail (Wits + Stealth), Shadowing 

(Wits + Stealth), Sneaking (Dexterity + Stealth)
Larceny Sample Specialties: Crowds, Hiding, Moving Quietly, 

Shadowing, Stakeouts
Larceny covers the generally-illegal skills of breaking and 

Sample contacts:  Bow Hunter, Burglar, Lookout from 
entering, lock picking, pickpocketing, safecracking, and 

a Former Job
similar activities. There usually aren’t schools for this sort of 
thing. Larceny is learned “on the job,” one way or another. Levels:

In addition to criminal applications, Larceny is used •	 Novice: A character with this level knows how to 
by magicians and illusionists for sleight of hand. Most find a shadowy corner to hide in, or how to blend 
locksmiths will also have at least a little bit of knowledge of into a crowd.
Larceny, as they understand how to open locks.

This Skill includes most of the tasks involving actually ••	 Professional: At this level, a character can follow 
defeating physical security, or the sleight of hand required someone without tipping them off or sneak past 
to pick a pocket or palm an item. It does not cover sneaking a sentry.
around, hacking and digital crimes, or the social aspects of 
running a con or distracting a mark. •••	 Experienced: A character at this level is rarely seen 

Sample actions: Casing a building (Wits + Larceny), Lock unless she wishes to be. She can evade people ac-
picking (Dexterity + Larceny), Sleight of hand (Dexterity + tively searching for her and ditch a tail in seconds.
Larceny)

Sample Specialties: Alarm Systems, Breaking and ••••	 Expert: A character at this level can avoid being no-
Entering, Lock Picking, Safecracking, Sleight of Hand ticed on security cameras in the heart of London. 

Sample contacts: Shady Pawn Shop Owner, Parole He can disappear from sight in moments.
Officer, Three-Card Monte Dealer. ••••• 	Master:  At this level of Skill, the character is a 
Levels: ghost. She is almost impossible to find or follow 

• unless she allows it. She can hide in an open field 
	 Novice: A character at this level knows sleight of 

or walk up behind an alert guard without being 
hand, and understands the basics of how to open 

noticed.
door locks, padlocks, and similar consumer-grade 
locks or security.

Survival
••	 Professional: A character at this level knows how 

to bypass electronic security or alarm systems and Survival represents a character’s experience and ability 
can run confidence games. She can break into to “live off the land.” He knows how to find shelter, gather 
most houses or offices easily. food, and endure harsh elements and environments. He can 

use the Survival Skill to find clean drinking water or hunt 
•••	 Experienced: At this level of Larceny, the charac- animals for food, build simple structures, and build a fire. 

ter has probably been working as a criminal for a The Survival Skill is not limited to wilderness or rural locales. 
while. He can crack safes, get past high-end security It can also be used to survive in an urban environment when 
systems, and gain entrance to buildings with active you have no other way of getting food or shelter.
security. The Survival Skill does not cover dealing with animals 

beyond hunting. The character can track an animal, but 
••••	 Expert: The character can pickpocket other thieves without the Animal Ken Skill, doesn’t understand much 

without them noticing. He can break into high-end about the animal’s behavior. He wouldn’t have much luck 
vaults and secure facilities. trying to calm a bear that found its way into his campsite.

38 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Sample actions: Foraging (Wits + Survival), Hunting 
(Wits + Survival), Sleeping in the open (Stamina + 
Survival)

Sample Specialties: Foraging, Hunting, 
Navigation, Shelter, Weather

Sample contacts: Homeless Person, Off-
the-grid Survivalist, Scout Master
Levels:
•	 Novice: A character at this level is 

probably a regular wilderness camper 
or hiker. She can care for himself while 
lost in the wilderness for a few days.

••	 Professional: At this level, a character 
has spent a great deal of time out in the 
elements. He might have gone on wilderness 
excursions in Alaska, worked in a national park, 
or have been forced to fend for himself on the 
streets for weeks at a time.

•••	 Experienced: At this rank, a character can care 
for a small group of people in the wilderness, 
keeping them fed, healthy, and safe until they 
are found or they have a chance to return to 
civilization.

••••	 Expert: Barring a disaster, a character at this 
rank could live off the land indefinitely. She 
may not be particularly comfortable, but she 
can take care of necessities.

••••• 	Master:  A character 
at this rank could be 
dropped into the 
middle of the des-
ert with no equip-
ment and walk out. He 
knows how to survive in the 
harshest environments on earth.

Weaponry
Weaponry is the ability to fight with 

hand-to-hand weapons. A character with 
this Skill can wield knives, swords, baseball 
bats, or even things like a length of chain or 
a chainsaw. If you are using a tool (other than a 
gun or bow) to do violence to someone, Weaponry 
is the appropriate Skill to use.

While guns are generally more dangerous, there are 
definitely times when you do not have access to one. You 
can almost always find something that you can use as a 
hand weapon, even if it’s just something like a screwdriver 
or a broom handle.

Sample actions: Identify fighting style (Intelligence + 
Weaponry), Impressive display (Dexterity + Weaponry), 
Size up opponent (Wits + Weaponry)

39 
Physical Skills



Sample Specialties: Clubs, Duels, Improvised Weapons, common animal. He can make friends with any 
Knives, Swords domesticated creature, and can establish a good 

Sample contacts: Fencing Instructor, Gang Member, relationship with most nonaggressive wild animals.
Western Martial Arts Enthusiast

••	 Professional:  The character can work with animals 
•	 Novice: At this level, a character knows how to professionally. She knows how to handle and train 

hold and swing a weapon properly, and under- commonly domesticated animals like dogs and 
stands the fundamentals of defense. She knows horses, and has some idea how to train many wild 
how to handle herself in a fight, and can hold her species, even ones that are normally aggressive or 
own when sparring. difficult to work with.

••	 Professional: A character with this rank in •••	 Experienced: At this rank, the character can easily 
Weaponry has excellent training or experience in train any domesticated animal, and seems to have a 
a fight, and knows how to make sure an assailant sixth sense for how animals behave and what they 
is taken out of the fight efficiently. are feeling.

•••	 Experienced: A character with three dots in ••••	 Expert: The character can train animals to perform 
Weaponry can make a weapon out of almost any ob- well beyond their normal behaviors. She can train 
ject, and could reasonably compete in tournaments horses for combat or for movie tricks, or even train 
or teach someone how to use their favored weapon. wild animals like tigers.

••••	 Expert: A character at this rank is extremely danger- ••••• 	Master:  The character can all but speak to animals. 
ous with just about any hand-to-hand weapon, and He is an absolute expert in the behaviors of even 
can stand toe to toe with some of the best fighters wild animals, and can soothe or cow an angry bear 
in the world. She knows how to read a fight and or a hunting cougar.
handle herself against single or multiple opponents.

••••• 	Master:  A character at this rank can actually per- Empathy
form the sort of feats action movie stars pretend 

Empathy is a character’s ability to read and understand 
to be capable of.

others’ feelings and motivations. It can represent careful 
observation of body language, tone, and other cues, or it 

Social Skills could be an instinctive sense that the character isn’t even 
entirely aware of. It can help the character detect deception 

Social Skills involve the application of a character’s charm, or uncertainty, as well as discern her target’s mood. It does 
poise, and personality. They generally don’t represent formal not inherently mean she is agreeing with or even behaving 
training so much as a combination of innate talent and ex- in a friendly fashion towards her target. The Empathy Skill is 
perience interacting with others. Social Skills are sometimes simply the ability to understand and work with the emotions 
paired with Physical or Mental Attributes, such as when you that someone is feeling.
roll Strength + Intimidation for a show of force. Sample actions: Determine intentions (Wits + Empathy), 

Animal Ken Sense Deception (Wits + Empathy), Soothe nerves 
(Manipulation + Empathy)

Animal Ken represents a character’s understanding of Sample Specialties: Buried Feelings, Calming, Emotions, 
animal behavior. A character can use this Skill to train ani- Lies, Motives
mals, calm frightened or injured animals, or cow violent and Sample contacts: Shoulder to Cry On, Police Profiler, 
aggressive creatures. Characters with Animal Ken understand Psych Student
how animals think and behave, whether through intuition Levels:
and respect for animals or analytical observation.

Sample actions: Animal training (Composure + Animal •	 Novice: A character at this rank in Empathy regu-
Ken), Cowing an animal (Presence + Animal Ken), Soothing larly gets a “vibe” from people, and is often the 
an animal (Presence + Animal Ken) source of stability or advice for her friends.

Sample Specialties: Dogs, Exotic Pets, Horses, Training, 
Wild Animals ••	 Professional: The character might actually be a thera-

Sample contacts: Crazy Cat Lady, Rodeo Horse Trainer, pist or social worker. He can always tell when friends 

Zoo Veterinarian are keeping secrets or when something is bothering 
them, and excels at figuring out what it is.

Levels:
•••	 Experienced: With three dots in Empathy, a 

•	 Novice: At this level, the character has a knack character can gain profound insights into another 
with animals and is good with just about any person’s feelings and behavior, even strangers.

40 
the face in the mirror-Characters



••••	 Expert: This character can draw out even the most Sample actions: Show of force (Strength + Intimidation), 
guarded people. Even tiny details of behavior can Stare down (Presence + Intimidation), Subtle threat 
be the clue to figuring out what someone wants. (Manipulation + Intimidation)

Sample Specialties: Direct Threats, Interrogation, 
••••• 	Master:  Human behavior is open book to this char- Murderous Stare, Torture, Veiled Threats

acter. People often accuse her of being a mind reader. Sample contacts: Barroom Tough Guy, High-powered 
Executive, Police Interrogator

Expression Levels:
Expression is the character’s ability to communicate his •	 Novice: This character always wins a staring 

thoughts and emotions. It covers writing and spoken com- contest, and the right words from him can rattle 
munication, art like painting or sculpture, and performances someone and make them do something stupid. 
like acting, music, and dance. A character can use this to 
compose a song or poem, write a book, or put together exactly ••	 Professional: At this rank, the character knows 
the right words for a rousing speech. exactly when to bluster and when to shut up and 

There is some overlap between this Skill and the Crafts let the silence work for her. People back off when 
Skill. Expression is generally used when trying to create a piece she is angry, and she can scare most people into 
of artwork specifically for aesthetic or emotional reasons, as op- doing what she wants.
posed to making an accurate copy or model, which uses Crafts.

Sample actions: Composing a poem (Wits + Expression), •••	 Experienced: The character ends more fights with 
Dance performance (Dexterity + Expression), Reciting a a look than with actual violence.
prepared speech (Presence + Expression)

Sample Specialties:  Dance, Journalism, Music ••••	 Expert: The toughest criminals crack after ten 

Composition, Painting, Speeches minutes in interrogation with him. He can clear 

Sample contacts:  Investigative Journalist, Political Speech a room with a look.

Writer, Reclusive Poet ••••• 	Master:  A word and a glance can make drill ser-
Levels: geants or mob hitmen run from her.

•	 Novice: A character at this level has a knack for turn 
of phrase, an excellent ear for music, or undeniable Persuasion
artistic talent and ability to convey emotion. Persuasion is about using influence, charm, and careful 

•• arguments to change minds and influence behavior. It can 
	 Professional: This character can work as a ses-

involve logic and reason, glib fast talking, or appealing to 
sion musician or local reporter. His command of 

emotions or baser instincts. Unlike Intimidation, Persuasion 
language is careful and effective.

doesn’t just involve forcing a character to change how they 
•••	 Experienced: At this rank, the character’s words act, Persuasion is about changing their mind and how they 

and movements can convey feelings with astonish- want to act.
ing power. Her performances and speeches impress Sample actions: Fast talk (Manipulation + Persuasion), 
and inspire. Impassioned plea (Presence + Persuasion), Seduction 

(Manipulation + Persuasion)
••••	 Expert: A character at this rank of Expression Sample Specialties: Fast Talking, Inspiring, Sales Pitches, 

could be a best-selling author, top-20 composer, Seduction, Sermons
or presidential speech writer. Sample contacts: Car Salesman, Speech Coach, Trial Lawyer

••••• 	Master:  This character’s speeches or performances Levels:
could go down in history. He has the power to •	 Novice: A character at this rank always seems to 
sway everyone who hears his work. know the right words. She excels at finding a solid 

argument, and knows how to pursue it to get what 
Intimidation he wants.

Intimidation is the art of using fear to convince others to ••	 Professional: This character could be a profes-
do what you want. A character can use this Skill for threats, sional salesman or trial lawyer. Given a little bit 
interrogation, subtle implications, or even a direct show of of time, he can find a tack that will get someone 
force. It can convince characters to back down from a con- to see his side of things.
frontation, reveal information they don’t want to share, or 
get them to cooperate against their better judgement. It can’t •••	 Experienced: A character at this rank regularly 
change their minds, but it can certainly change their behavior. wins sales awards. He can get people to question 

even strongly held beliefs.

41 
Social Skills



••••	 Expert: At this rank, the character knows how to insulting anyone, and can handle social situations 
make people want what she’s selling, no matter from formal dinners to wild parties.
what it is. She understands how to get around a 
person’s defenses and persuade them of things ••	 Professional: At this level of Socialize, the character can 
that they normally wouldn’t even consider. gracefully blend into just about any social situation.

••••• 	Master:  The character can convince anyone of •••	 Experienced: The character is invited to all of the 
just about anything, at least for a short time. Even parties and makes sure everyone has a good time.
beliefs that make up a large chunk of a person’s ••••	 Expert: The character can fit in anywhere. It’s not 
self-identity can be questioned.

considered a party unless she is in attendance, and 
she can make any group of people feel at ease.

Socialize
••••• 	Master:  A character with this level of Skill could 

The Socialize Skill is the art of small talk, polite gestures, be a spy or a high ranking diplomat. She always 
and fitting in. It represents your ability to interact with people seems to know exactly what is expected for the 
in a variety of social settings, from dive bars to state dinners. It social situation, including those times when acting 
covers dealing with groups of people and behaving with the right outside the norm is the best way to fit in.
balance of sensitivity, friendliness, etiquette, and dignity for the 
setting. A character with a high Socialize is the life of the party, or 
at least able to meet almost anyone she wishes who is at an event. Streetwise

Sample actions: Carouse (Manipulation + Socialize), Fit A character with the Streetwise Skill understands how 
in (Wits + Socialize), Get attention (Presence + Socialize) life on the streets works, and is adept at surviving and thriv-

Sample Specialties: Bar hopping, College parties, Formal ing by its rules. He can navigate the city, knows who to go 
events, Political fundraisers, Private clubs to for information or help, and knows where he will be safe. 

Sample contacts: Diplomat, Drinking Buddy, Society Matron Streetwise characters can make use of the city’s unique re-
Levels: sources, buy and sell on the black market, or find out secrets. 

It’s an important Skill for any character that needs to avoid 
•	 Novice: A character at this level knows which the law, navigate the dangers in the city, and keep from end-

fork to use (or when not to use one), can avoid ing up on the bad sides of the wrong people.

42 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Sample actions: Find a shortcut (Wits + Streetwise), Get and double-dealing. Even suspicious people can’t 
the word on the street (Manipulation + Streetwise), Work tell when he is lying.
the black market (Manipulation + Streetwise)

Sample Specialties: Black market, Gangs, Navigation, ••••	 Expert: This character can pull off complex con 
Rumors, Undercover work games with style. She can lie to your face without 

Sample contacts: Bartender in a Rough Part of Town, a flinch or a flicker of doubt.
Drug Dealer, Undercover Cop ••••• 	Master:  Everyone likes and trusts this character. 
Levels: Everyone.
•	 Novice: This character knows his neighborhood 

very well, and knows who to go to get the informa-
tion he needs. Merits

••	 Professional: At this level of Streetwise, a character Merits represent a character’s unique abilities and assets. 
knows where to ditch a hot car and who might be They can cover anything from her wealth to her uncanny 
able to handle a specific minor favor. ability to knock out her opponents.

•••	 Experienced: Insiders and true fixtures of the 
street scene have this level of the Skill. A character Renaming Merits
with three dots in Streetwise knows who can make Each Merit has a name suggestive of its usage. If you 
the proper introductions and who can actually get want to customize a Merit while still accomplishing the same 
things accomplished. goal, give it a different name. For example, Retainer suggests 

something very specific. However, you could just as easily call 
••••	 Expert: This character never gets lost in her town. it Ward, and while it does the same thing in game terms, the 

And it is her town. She knows everyone, and implication is different. Striking Looks could just as easily 
everyone knows her. be called Sex Appeal, Bruiser, or Trustworthy, and give the 

exact same game advantages. Consider renaming Merits to 
••••• 	Master:  There isn’t a secret in town that this char- help further define your character.

acter can’t access. A character at this rank doesn’t 
just know who to go to in order to get things done 
– he is the one people go to. Style Merits

Merits marked as Style Merits allow access to specialized 
Subterfuge maneuvers. Each maneuver is a prerequisite for the next in 

its sequence. So if a Style Merit has a three-dot maneuver 
Subterfuge is the fine art of deception. With Subterfuge, and a four-dot maneuver, you must purchase the three-dot 

a character can lie convincingly, recognize when she is being version before accessing the four-dot. 
lied to, or convey hidden meaning in what she says. She can 
hide her own motivations and emotions. Generally, this Skill 
is used to trick others, but some characters learn it in order Sanctity of Merits
to avoid being tricked themselves. While Merits represent things within the game and about 

Sample actions: Conceal emotions (Composure your character, they’re really an out-of-character resource, a 
+ Subterfuge), Disguise (Wits + Subterfuge), Lying function of the character creation and advancement mechan-
(Manipulation + Subterfuge) ics. Merits often represent things that can go away. Retainers 

Sample Specialties: Detecting lies, Hidden meanings, can be killed. Mentors can get impatient and stop dispensing 
Hiding emotions, Long cons, Misdirection wisdom. So while Merits may represent temporary facets of 

Sample contacts: Con Artist, Crooked Politician, Out- your character, Merit dotss continue to exist. At the end of 
of-work Actor any chapter where your character has lost Merits, you can 
Levels: replace them with another Merit.

For example, your character has three-dot Retainer, a loyal 
•	 Novice: The character has an excellent poker face, dog, and an eldritch horror eats that dog out in the woods. 

and rarely reveals what she is thinking. At the end of that chapter, you may reallocate those Retainer 
dots. You may choose to purchase Safe Place, to reflect your 

••	 Professional: At this level, a character can pull character’s choice to bunker down from the monster, and 
of a good bluff or short con, often getting away perhaps Direction Sense (one dot) so your character is less 
without the victim even knowing they were had. likely to get lost in those woods in the future. When the 

•••	 Experienced: A character with this level in character leaves his Safe Place, you can replace those two 

Subterfuge can keep track of complex webs of lies dots with something else.

43 
Merits



When replacing a Merit, consider what makes sense in the Eidetic Memory (••)
story. Pursue the new Merit during the course of the chapter 
if possible, and make the new tie something less superficial Effect: Your character recalls events and details with 
than a dot or two on a sheet. pinpoint accuracy. You do not have to make rolls for your 

With Storyteller permission, you may ‘cash in’ a Merit character to remember past experiences. When making 
voluntarily and replace it with Experiences. This should not Intelligence + Composure (or relevant Skill) rolls to recall 
be used as a way to purchase a Merit, take advantage of its minute facts from swaths of information, take a +2 bonus.
benefits, and then cash it out for something else. But if a 
Merit’s run its course and no longer makes sense for your Encyclopedic Knowledge (••)
character, you may use those points elsewhere. Effect: Choose a Skill. Due to an immersion in academia, 

Merits such as Ambidextrous, Eidetic Memory and the pop culture, or a hobby obsession, your character has col-
various Fighting Style Merits reflect abilities and knowledge lected limitless factoids about the topic, even if she has no 
that your character has, and therefore shouldn’t be cashed dots in the Skill.
in or replaced. Then again, if an Ambidextrous character You can make an Intelligence + Wits roll at any time your 
loses his left hand.... character is dealing with her area of interest. On a successful 

roll, the Storyteller must give a relevant fact or detail about 
Mental Merits the issue at hand. Your character knows this fact, but you 

must explain within the scope of your character’s background 

Area of Expertise (•) why she knows it. For example, for Encyclopedic Knowledge: 
Medicine: “Do you remember that time on that show, when 

Prerequisite: Resolve •• and one Skill Specialty the doctor said it doesn’t manifest before puberty?”
Effect: Your character is uncommonly specialized in one 

area. Choose a Specialty to assign to this Merit. Forgo the +1 Eye for the Strange (••)
bonus afforded by a Specialty, in exchange for a +2. Prerequisite: Resolve ••, Occult •
Common Sense (•••) Effect: While your character does not necessarily possess 

a breadth of knowledge about the supernatural, she knows 
Effect: Your character has an exceptionally sound and the otherworldly when she sees it. By perusing evidence, she 

rational mind. With a moment’s thought, she can weigh can determine whether something comes from natural or 
potential courses of action and outcomes. supernatural origins. Roll Intelligence + Composure. With 

Once per chapter as an instant action, you may ask the a success, the Storyteller must tell you if the scene has a 
Storyteller one of the following questions about a task at hand supernatural cause, and provide one piece of found informa-
or course of action. Roll Wits + Composure. If you succeed, tion that confirms the answer. With an exceptional success, 
the Storyteller must answer to the best of her ability. If you she must give you a bit of supernatural folklore that suggests 
fail, you get no answer. With an exceptional success, you can what type of creature caused the problem. If the problem was 
ask an additional question.  mundane, an exceptional success gives an ongoing +2 to all 

•	 What is the worst choice? rolls to investigate the event, due to her redoubled certainty 
in its natural causation.

•	 What do I stand to lose here? 
Fast Reflexes (• to •••)

•	 What’s the safest choice? 
Prerequisite: Wits ••• or Dexterity •••

•	 Am I chasing a worthless lead? Effect: +1 Initiative per dot
Your character’s reflexes impress and astound; she’s always 

Danger Sense (••) fast to react. 

Effect: You gain a +2 modifier on reflexive Wits + Good Time Management (•)
Composure rolls for your character to detect an impending Prerequisite: Academics •• or Science ••
ambush. Effect: Your character has vast experience managing 

Your character’s reflexes are honed to the point where complex tasks, keeping schedules, and meeting deadlines. 
nothing’s shocking. When taking an extended action, halve the time required 

Direction Sense (•) between rolls. 

Effect: Your character has an innate sense of direction, Holistic Awareness (•)
and is always aware of her location in space. She always Effect: Your character is skilled at non-traditional healing 
knows which direction she faces, and never suffers penalties methods. While scientific minds might scoff, he can provide 
to navigate or find her way. basic medical care with natural means. He knows what herbs can 

44 
the face in the mirror-Characters



stem an infection, and what minerals will stave off a minor sick- Investigative Aide (•)
ness. Unless your patient suffers wound penalties from lethal or 
aggravated wounds, you do not need traditional medical equip- Prerequisites: Chosen Skill at •••+
ment to stabilize and treat injuries. With access to woodlands, a Effect: Your character has one particular knack that can 
greenhouse, or other source of diverse flora, a Wits + Survival contribute amazingly to an investigation. Choose a Skill 
roll allows your character to gather all necessary supplies. when purchasing this Merit; when making rolls to Uncover 

Clues (see p. 79), she achieves exceptional success on three 
Indomitable (••) successes instead of five. As well, Clues that come from her 

use of that Skill start with one additional element.
Prerequisite: Resolve ••• You may purchase this Merit multiple times, to enhance 
Your character possesses an iron will. The powers of the different Skills. 

supernatural have little bearing on her behavior. She can 
stand up to a vampire’s mind control, a witch’s charms, or a Investigative Prodigy (• to •••••)
ghost’s gifts of fright. Any time a supernatural creature uses 
a power to influence your character’s thoughts or emotions, Prerequisites: Wits •••, Investigation •••
add two dice to the dice pool to contest it. If the roll is resisted, Effect: Your character investigates instinctively, and can 
instead subtract two dice from the monster’s dice pool. Note intuit details and connections in a scene without much time. 
that this only affects mental influence and manipulation He’s a veritable Sherlock Holmes. Instead of simply uncover-
from a supernatural origin. A vampire with a remarkable ing Clues or not uncovering Clues when investigating (see p. 
Manipulation + Persuasion score is just as likely to convince 79), your character discovers multiple Clues in a single action. 
your character to do something using mundane tricks. Your character can uncover Clues equal to his successes or his 

Merit dots as an instant action, whichever is lower. 
Interdisciplinary Specialty (•) Only the first Clue benefits from additional elements; 

other Clues established with this Merit receive only a single 
Prerequisite: Skill at ••• or higher with a Specialty element each.
Effect: Choose a Specialty that your character possesses 

when you purchase this Merit. You can apply the +1 from Language (•)
that Specialty on any Skill with at least one dot, provided 
it’s justifiable within the scope of the fiction. For example, Effect: Your character is skilled with an additional lan-
a doctor with a Medicine Specialty in Anatomy may be able guage, beyond her native tongue. Choose a language each 
to use it when targeting a specific body part with Weaponry, time you buy this Merit. Your character can speak, read, and 
but could not with a general strike. write in that language. 

45 
Mental Merits



Library (• to •••) ••	 Continuing Education: With the repeated efforts 
in her field of choice, your character tends toward 

Effect: Your character has access to a plethora of infor- greater successes. When making a roll with her 
mation about a given topic. When purchasing this Merit, Asset Skills, she benefits from the 9-again quality. 
choose a Mental Skill. The Library covers that purview. On 
any extended roll involving the Skill in question, add the •••	 Breadth of Knowledge: Due to her advancement 
dots in this Merit. in her field, she’s picked up a number of particular 

This Merit can be purchased multiple times, to reflect bits of information and skill unique to her work. 
different Skills. Additionally, its benefits can be shared by Choose a third Asset Skill, and take two Specialties 
various characters, with permission. in your character’s Asset Skills. 

Meditative Mind (•, ••, or ••••) ••••	 On the Job Training: With the resources at her 
disposal, your character has access to extensive 

Effect: Your character’s meditation is far more fulfilling educational tools and mentorship. Take a Skill 
than for other characters. With the one-dot version of this dot in an Asset Skill. Whenever you purchase a 
Merit, the character does not suffer environmental penalties new Asset Skill dot, take a Beat.
to meditation (see p. 75), even from wound penalties. 

With the two-dot version, when the character has suc- •••••	 The Routine: With such extensive experience in 
cessfully meditated, she gains a +3 bonus on any Resolve her field, her Asset Skills have been honed to a fine 
+ Composure rolls during the same day, as she’s steeled edge, and she’s almost guaranteed at least a marginal 
herself against the things in the world that would shake her success. Before rolling, spend a Willpower point to 
foundation. apply the rote action quality to an Asset Skill. This 

At the four-dot level, she only needs a single success to allows you to reroll all the failed dice on the first roll. 
gain the benefits of meditation for the day, instead of the 
normal four. Tolerance for Biology (•)
Multilingual (•) Prerequisite: Resolve •••

Effect: Most people turn away at the sight of blood, 
Effect: Your character has a strong affinity for language other bodily fluids, or exotic biology. Your character has 

acquisition. Each time you purchase this Merit, choose two seen enough that nothing turns her stomach. When other 
languages. Your character can speak conversationally in those characters must resist shock or physical repulsion from the 
languages. With an Intelligence + Academics roll, he may also disgusting and morbid, your character stands her ground. You 
read enough of the language to understand context. do not need to make Composure, Stamina, or Resolve rolls 

If you purchase the Language Merit for either of these to withstand the biologically strange. This doesn’t mean she’s 
languages, replace the Multilingual language. For example, immune to fear; she’s just used to nature in all its nasty forms.
if you have Multilingual (French, Italian), and purchase 
Language: Italian, you may choose to take Multilingual Trained Observer (•, or •••)
(French, Portuguese).  

Prerequisite: Wits ••• or Composure •••
Patient (•) Effect: Your character has spent years in the field, catch-

ing tiny details and digging for secrets. She might not have a 
Effect: Your character knows how to pace herself and take better chance of finding things, but she has a better chance 

the time to do the job right the first time. When taking an of finding important things. Any time you make a Perception 
extended action, you may make two additional rolls, above roll (usually Wits + Composure), you benefit from the 9-again 
what your Attribute + Skill allows. quality. With the three-dot version, you get 8-again. 

Professional Training (• to •••••) Vice-Ridden (••)
Effect: Your character has extensive training in a particu- Effect: Your character is one of the worst examples of 

lar profession, which offers distinct advantages in a handful humanity in the Chronicles of Darkness. He has two Vices, 
of fields. When choosing this Merit, choose or create a although he may still only regain one Willpower per scene 
Profession for your character (see the sidebar). Mark the he indulges himself.
two Asset Skills on your character sheet. The advantages of 
Professional Training relate directly to those Asset Skills. Virtuous (••)
•	 Networking: At the first level of Professional Effect: Your character is a light of good in the Chronicles 

Training, your character builds connections within of Darkness. She has two Virtues. The limitations of how 
her chosen field. Take two dots of Contacts relat- many times she may refresh Willpower using a Virtue remain 
ing to that field. the same, but it’s up to you which Virtue she uses each time.

46 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Automotive Genius (•)
Professions Prerequisites: Crafts •••, Drive •, Science •

Effect: Your character knows how to fine-tune a vehicle 
Here is a list of the most common Professions, and to utter extremes. When determining how many modifica-
their Asset Skills. Feel free to create your own to tions she can add to a vehicle (see p. 98), triple her Crafts 
suit the needs of your characters and stories. Also, dots instead of doubling them. So, a character with Crafts 
you may adapt the Asset Skills as fit. For example, •••• could support 12 combined modifications on a vehicle 
your police officer might be more proficient instead of eight. Additionally, any relevant Crafts Specialties 
with Politics and Intimidation than Firearms and 
Streetwise. add one more potential modification to the total.

Profession Asset Skills Crack Driver (•• or •••)
Academic Academics, Science Prerequisite: Drive •••

Effect: Your character’s an ace at the wheel, and nothing 
Artist Crafts, Expression shakes his concentration. So long as he’s not taking any actions 
Athlete Athletics, Medicine other than driving (and keeping the car safe), add his Composure 
Cop Streetwise, Firearms to any rolls to Drive. Any rolls to disable his vehicle suffer a pen-

alty equal to his Composure as well. With the three-dot version, 
Criminal  Larceny, Streetwise once per turn he may take a Drive action reflexively. 
Detective Empathy, Investigation
Doctor Empathy, Medicine Demolisher (• to •••)
Engineer Crafts, Science Prerequisite: Strength ••• or Intelligence •••

Effect: Your character has an innate feel for the weak 
Hacker Computer, Science points in objects. When damaging an object, she ignores 
Hit Man Firearms, Stealth one point of the object’s Durability per dot with this Merit. 

Journalist Expression, Investigation Double Jointed (••)
Laborer Athletics, Crafts

Prerequisite: Dexterity •••
Occultist Investigation, Occult Effect: Your character might have been a contortionist, 
Politician Politics, Subterfuge or spent time practicing yoga. She can dislodge joints when 

Professional Academics, Persuasion need be. She automatically escapes from any mundane bonds 
without a roll. When grappled, subtract her Dexterity from 

Religious Leader Academics, Occult any rolls to overpower her, as long as she’s not taking any 
Scientist Investigation, Science aggressive actions.

Socialite Politics, Socialize Fleet of Foot (• to •••)
Stuntman Athletics, Drive

Prerequisite: Athletics ••
Survivalist Animal Ken, Survival Effect: Your character is remarkably quick, and runs far 
Soldier Firearms, Survival faster than his frame suggests. He gains +1 Speed per dot, 

Technician Crafts, Investigation and anyone pursuing him suffers a -1 per dot to any foot 
chase rolls.

Thug Brawl, Intimidation
Vagrant Streetwise, Survival Giant (•••)

Effect: Your character is massive. She’s well over six feet 
tall, and crowds part when she approaches. She’s Size 6, and 
gains +1 Health. Available only at character creation.

Physical Merits Drawback: Buying clothing is a nightmare. Fitting in 
small spaces is difficult at best. 

Ambidextrous (•••) Hardy (• to •••)
Effect: Your character does not suffer the -2 penalty for Prerequisite: Stamina •••

using his off hand in combat or to perform other actions. Effect: Your character’s body goes further than it right-
Available only at character creation. fully should. Add the dots in this Merit to any rolls to resist 

disease, poison, deprivation, unconsciousness, or suffocation. 

47 
Physical Merits



Greyhound (•) with complex leaps, bounds, running tricks, and vaults. This is 
the type of sport popularized in modern action films, where 

Prerequisites: Athletics •••, Wits •••, Stamina ••• characters are unhindered by fences, walls, construction equip-
Effect: Your character works best when chasing or being ment, cars, or anything else the city puts in their way. 

chased; the hunt is in his blood. When in a chase (see p. Flow (•): Your character reacts instinctively to any ob-
84), you receive the effects of an exceptional success on three stacles with leaps, jumps, and scaling techniques. When in a 
successes instead of five. foot chase, subtract your Parkour from the successes needed 

Iron Stamina (• to •••) to pursue or evade. Also, ignore environmental penalties to 
Athletics rolls equal to your Parkour rating.

Prerequisites: Stamina ••• or Resolve ••• Cat Leap (••): Your character falls with outstanding grace. 
Effect: Each dot eliminates a negative modifier (on a one- When using a Dexterity + Athletics roll to mitigate damage 

for-one basis) when resisting the effects of fatigue or injury. from falling, your character gains one automatic success. 
For example: A character with Iron Stamina •• is able to Additionally, add your Parkour rating to the threshold of 
ignore up to a -2 modifier brought on by fatigue. The Merit damage that can be removed through this roll. Parkour will 
also counteracts the effects of wound penalties. So, if all not mitigate damage from a terminal velocity fall. 
of your character’s Health boxes are filled (which normally Wall Run (•••): When climbing, your character can 
imposes a -3 penalty to his actions) and he has Iron Stamina run upward for some distance before having to traditionally 
•, those penalties are reduced to -2. This Merit cannot be climb. Without rolling, your character scales10 feet + five 
used to gain positive modifiers for actions, only to cancel feet per dot of Athletics as an instant action, rather than the 
out negative ones. normal 10 feet. 

Expert Traceur (••••): Parkour has become second na-
Parkour (• to •••••, Style) ture for your character. By spending a Willpower point, you 

may designate one Athletics roll to run, jump, or climb as a 
Prerequisites: Dexterity •••, Athletics •• rote action (reroll all failed dice once). On any turn during 
Your character is a trained and proficient free runner. Free which you use this ability, you may not apply your character’s 

running is the art of moving fluidly through urban environments Defense to oncoming attacks. 

48 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Freeflow (•••••): Your character’s Parkour is now Stunt Driver (• to ••••; Style)
muscle memory. She can move without thinking, in a 
Zenlike state. The character must successfully meditate (see Prerequisites: Dexterity •••, Drive •••, Wits •••
p. 75) in order to establish Freeflow. Once established, Effect: Your character is an expert behind the wheel, and 
your character is capable of taking Athletics actions re- can push a vehicle beyond normal limits. Each dot of this 
flexively once per turn. By spending a point of Willpower Merit grants access to another driving technique.
on an Athletics roll in a foot chase, gain three successes Defensive Driving (•): Your character knows how to pro-
instead of three dice. tect herself and her vehicle while driving. Subtract her Drive 

dots from any attempt to hit her vehicle while it’s mobile.
Quick Draw (•) Speed Demon (••): Your character is an expert at push-

ing vehicles to their potential in no time flat. Each success 
Prerequisites: Wits •••, a Specialty in the weapon or on rolls to accelerate a vehicle (see p.98) raises the vehicle’s 

fighting style chosen Speed by 10 instead of 5.
Effect: Choose a Specialty in Weaponry or Firearms when Drift (•••): Your character knows how to use her vehicle’s 

you purchase this Merit. Your character has trained in that momentum to efficiently turn at high speeds. She never needs 
weapon or style enough that pulling the weapon is his first to make a maneuvering roll to turn at high speeds. 
reflex. Drawing or holstering that weapon is considered a re- Clipping (••••): Your character has experience hitting 
flexive action, and can be done any time his Defense applies. things with her vehicle in such a way as to not hurt herself 

much. When voluntarily hitting another character or vehicle 
Relentless (•) with hers, ignore damage to her own vehicle equal to her 

Prerequisites: Athletics ••, Stamina ••• Wits. This is applied before Durability.
Effect: Your character will not stop running, whether 

away from a pursuer or toward prey. In any chase (see p. 84) Social Merits
your opponents must achieve two additional successes against Many of these Merits use the Social rules (p. 81), influenc-
yours to catch her or elude her. ing Doors and other facets of the interaction. 

Seizing the Edge (••) Allies(• to •••••)
Prerequisites: Wits •••, Composure ••• Effect: Allies help your character. They might be friends, 
Effect: Your character is always ready for a chase. Whether employees, associates, or people your character has black-

to escape a threat or hunt down a rival, she’s always geared mailed. Each instance of this Merit represents one type of 
and ready to go. She always has the Edge in the first turn ally. This could be an organization, a society, a clique, or 
of a chase scene (see p. 84). Additionally, the opponent an individual. Examples include the police, a secret society, 
must make a successful Wits + Composure roll, as if being criminal organizations, unions, local politicians, or the aca-
ambushed, or your character does not have to account for demic community. Each purchase has its own rating. Your 
her Speed or Initiative when calculating needed successes character might have Allies (Masons) ••, Allies (Carter Crime 
in the first turn. Family) •••, and Allies (Catholic Church) •. 

Sleight of Hand (••) Each dot represents a layer of influence in the group. 
One dot would constitute small favors and passing influ-

Prerequisite: Larceny ••• ence. Three could offer considerable influence, such as the 
Effect: Your character can pick locks and pockets without police overlooking a misdemeanor charge. Five dots stretches 

even thinking about it. She can take one Larceny-based in- the limits of the organization’s influence, as its leaders put 
stant action reflexively in a given turn. As well, her Larceny their own influence on the line for the character. This could 
actions go unnoticed unless someone is trying specifically include things such as massive insider trading or fouling up 
to catch her. a felony investigation. No matter the request, it has to be 

something that organization could accomplish. 
Small-Framed (••) The Storyteller assigns a rating between one and five to 

any favor asked. A character can ask for favors that add up to 
Effect: Your character is diminutive. He’s not five feet, 

her Allies rating without penalty in one chapter. If she extends 
and it’s easy to walk into him without noticing. He’s Size 

her influence beyond that, her player must roll Manipulation 
4, and thus has one fewer Health box. He gains +2 to 

+ Persuasion + Allies, with a penalty equal to the favor’s 
any rolls to hide or go unnoticed, and this bonus might 

rating. If the roll is successful, the group does as requested. 
apply any time being smaller would be an advantage, 

Failed or successful, the character loses a dot of Allies. This 
such as crawling through smaller spaces. Available only 

dot may return at the end of the chapter (see Sanctity of 
at character creation.

Merits, on p. 43.) On a dramatic failure, the organization 
Drawback: In addition to the lower Health, your character 

resents her and seeks retribution. On an exceptional success, 
might be overlooked or not taken seriously by some people.

she doesn’t lose the dot. 

49 
Social Merits



One additional favor a character can ask of her Allies is to actions to uncover her true feelings, motives, and position, 
block another character’s Allies, Contacts, Mentor, Retainer, add her Merit dots to any contested rolls for her. 
or Status (if she knows the character possesses the relevant At the Storyteller’s discretion, this can apply to super-
Merit). The rating is equal to the Merit dots blocked. As natural effects used against her. For example, it might allow 
before, no roll is necessary unless the target’s Merit exceeds her to resist a power that forces her to speak the truth, since 
the character’s Allies. If the block succeeds, the character she can manipulate the wording. However, it wouldn’t affect 
cannot use the Merit during the same chapter. someone looking at her aura, since she cannot manipulate 

her spiritual resonance.
Alternate Identity (•, ••, or •••)

Effect: Your character has established an alternate identity. Contacts (• to •••••)
The level of this Merit determines the amount of scrutiny it Effect: Contacts provide your character with information. 
holds up to. At one dot, the identity is superficial and unof- Each dot in this Merit represents a sphere or organization with 
ficial. For example, your character uses an alias with a simple which the character can garner information. For example, a 
costume and adopts an accent. She hasn’t established the character with Contacts ••• might have Bloggers, Drug Dealers, 
necessary paperwork to even approach a bureaucratic back- and Financial Speculators for connections. Contacts do not 
ground check, let alone pass one. At two dots, she’s supported provide services, only information. This may be face-to-face, via 
her identity with paperwork and identification. It’s not liable email, by telephone, or even by séance in some strange instances. 
to stand up to extensive research, but it’ll turn away private Garnering information via Contacts requires a 
investigators and internet hobbyists. At three dots, the identity Manipulation + Social Skill roll, depending on the method 
can pass a thorough inspection. The identity has been deeply the character uses, and the relationship between the characters. 
entrenched in relevant databases, with subtle flourishes and The Storyteller should give a bonus or penalty, dependent on 
details to make it seem real, even to trained professionals. how relevant the information is to that particular Contact, 

Additionally, the Merit reflects time the character has whether accessing the information is dangerous, and if the 
spent honing her persona. At one or two dots, she gains +1 character has maintained good relations or done favors for 
to all Subterfuge rolls to defend the identity. At three dots, the Contact. These modifiers should range from -3 to +3 in 
she gains +2. most cases. If successful, the Contact provides the information. 

This Merit can be purchased multiple times, each time One use of a Contact is to dig dirt on another character. 
representing an additional identity. A Contact can find another character’s Social Merits, and any 

relevant Conditions (Embarrassing Secret is a prime example.) 
Anonymity (• to •••••) A character can have more than five Contacts, but the 

Prerequisites: Merit’s rating is limited to five, for the purposes of Allies 
Cannot have Fame

Effect: blocking. 
 Your character lives off the grid. This means pur-

chases must be made with cash or falsified credit cards. She 
eschews identification. She avoids any official authoritative Fame (• to •••)
influence in her affairs. Any attempts to find her by paper Effect: Your character is recognized within a certain 
trail suffer a -1 penalty per dot purchased in this Merit. sphere, for a certain skill, or because of some past action or 

Drawback: Your character cannot purchase the Fame stroke of luck. This can mean favors and attention, it can also 
Merit. This also may limit Status purchases, if the character mean negative attention and scrutiny. When choosing the 
cannot provide sufficient identification for the roles she Merit, define what your character is known for. As a rule of 
wishes to take. thumb, one dot means local recognition, or reputation within 

a confined subculture. Two dots means regional recognition 
Barfly (••) by a wide swath of people. Three dots means worldwide 

Prerequisite: recognition to anyone that might have been exposed to the 
 Socialize ••

Effect: source of the fame. Each dot adds a die to any Social rolls 
 Your character is a natural in the bar environment, 

among those who are impressed by your character’s celebrity.
and can procure an open invitation wherever he wishes. 

Drawback: Any rolls to find or identify the character 
Whereas most characters would require rolls to blend into 

enjoy a +1 bonus per dot of the Merit. If the character has 
social functions they don’t belong in, he doesn’t; he belongs. 

Alternate Identity, she can mitigate this drawback. A character 
Rolls to identify him as an outsider suffer his Socialize as a 

with Fame cannot have the Anonymity Merit.  
penalty. 

Closed Book (• to •••••) Fast-Talking (• to •••••, Style)
Prerequisites: Prerequisites: Manipulation •••, Subterfuge ••

 Manipulation •••, Resolve •••
Effect: Your character talks circles around listeners. He speaks a 

 Your character is particularly tough to crack. When 
mile a minute, and often leaves his targets reeling, but nod-

a character uses Social Maneuvering (see p. 81) against her, 
ding in agreement. 

add her dots in this Merit as additional Doors. In other Social 

50 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Always Be Closing (•): With the right leading phrases, a -3. Listeners gain the Inspired Condition. The character 
your character can direct a mark to say what he wants, when may not use this Merit on herself. 
he wants. This trips the mark into vulnerable positions. When 
a mark contests or resists your character’s Social interactions, Iron Will (••)
apply a -1 to their Resolve or Composure. Prerequisite: Resolve ••••

Jargon (••): Your character confuses his mark using Effect: Your character’s resolve is unwavering. When 
complex terminology. You may apply one relevant Specialty 

spending Willpower to contest or resist in a Social interac-
to any Social roll you make, even if the Specialty isn’t tied 

tion, you may substitute your character’s Resolve for the usual 
to the Skill in use. 

Willpower bonus. If the roll is contested, roll with 8-again.
Devil’s Advocacy (•••): Your character often poses argu-

ments he doesn’t agree with, in order to challenge a mark’s 
position and keep him from advancing the discussion. You Mentor (• to •••••)
can reroll one failed Subterfuge roll per scene. Effect: This Merit gives your character a teacher that 

Salting (••••): Your character can position himself so provides advice and guidance. He acts on your character’s 
a mark pursues a non-issue or something unimportant to behalf, often in the background, and sometimes without your 
him. When your character opens a Door using conversation character’s knowledge. While Mentors can be highly compe-
(Persuasion, Subterfuge, Empathy, etc.) you may spend a tent, they almost always want something in return for their 
Willpower point to immediately open another Door.  services. The dot rating determines the Mentor’s capabilities, 

The Nigerian Scam (•••••): Your character can take and to what extent he’ll aid your character. 
advantage of his mark’s greed and zeal. When the mark does When establishing a Mentor, determine what the 
particularly well, it’s because your character was there to set Mentor wants from your character. This should be person-
him up, and to subsequently tear him down. If a target regains ally important to him, and it should reflect on the dot 
Willpower from his Vice while your character is present, you rating chosen. A one-dot Mentor might be incapable of 
may immediately roll Manipulation + Subterfuge to open a dealing with modern society, and want to live vicariously 
Door, regardless of the interval or impression level. through your character. This might mean coming to him 

and telling stories of her exploits. A five-dot Mentor would 
Fixer (••) want something astronomical, such as an oath to procure an 

ancient, cursed artifact that may or may not exist, in order 
Prerequisite: Contacts ••, Wits •••

to prevent a prophesized death. 
Effect: Your character is people that knows people. She 

Choose three Skills the Mentor possesses. You can sub-
can not only get in touch with the right people to do a job, 

stitute Resources for one of these Skills. Once per session, 
but she can get them at the best possible prices. When hir-

the character may ask her Mentor for a favor. The favor must 
ing a service (see p. 100), reduce the Availability score of the 

involve one of those Skills, or be within the scope of his 
service by one dot. 

Resources. The Mentor commits to the favor (often asking for 

Hobbyist Clique (••) a commensurate favor in return), and if a roll is required, the 
Mentor is automatically considered to have successes equal 

Prerequisite: Membership in a clique. All members must to his dot rating. Alternately, you may ask the Storyteller to 
possess this Merit, and the chosen Skill at ••+ have the Mentor act on your character’s behalf, without her 

Effect: Your character is part of a group of hobbyists that character knowing or initiating the request.
specialize in one area, represented by a Skill. It may be a book 
club, a coven, a political party, or any group brought together Mystery Cult Initiation  
by a common interest. When the group’s support is available, 
you benefit from the 9-again quality on rolls involving the (• to •••••)
group’s chosen Skill. As well, the clique offers two additional Cults are far more common than people would like to 
dice on any extended actions involving that Skill. admit. “Mystery cult” is the catch-all term for a phenomenon 

Drawback: This Merit requires upkeep. You must attend ranging from secret societies couched in fraternity houses, to 
at least monthly, informal meetings to maintain the benefits scholarly cabals studying the magic of classical symbolism, to 
of Hobbyist Clique. mystical suicide cults to the God-Machine. 

Mystery Cult Initiation reflects membership in one of 
Inspiring (•••) these esoteric groups. The dot rating dictates standing. One 

dot is an initiate, two a respected member, three a priest or 
Prerequisite: Presence •••

organizer, four a decision-making leader, and five is a high 
Effect: Your character’s passion inspires those around her 

priest or founder. If you wish your character to begin play 
to greatness. With a few words, she can redouble a group’s 

in a cult, work with your Storyteller to develop the details. 
confidence or move them to action. 

Designing a Mystery Cult requires three things, at bare 
Make a Presence + Expression roll. A small group of listen-

minimum. First is a Purpose. This is the defining reason 
ers levies a -1 penalty, a small crowd a -2, and a large crowd 

51 
Social Merits



Sample Cults
Sample Cult: The Chosen of Mammon

Mammon believes in the almighty dollar, and its inherent power. Followers of Mammon are expected to 
obtain material wealth and power at any cost. Fortunately, their networks help initiates quickly claim promo-
tions and transfers into more prominent areas of influence. 
Cultists: Hedge fund manager, mailboy on a mission, outsourcer, personal assistant to the stars, talent 
scout, third generation CEO
Initiation Benefits
•	 All initiates learn to cut through red tape to fulfill their later duties. They gain a Politics Specialty in 

Bureaucracy. 
••	 Full members must learn to speak, read, and write in Aramaic. They gain the Language Merit 

(Aramaic) free of charge. 
•••	 As a cultist delves into the mysteries of Mammon, she gains access to greater cult resources. Spend 

two dots between Contacts, Allies, Resources, or Retainers reflecting this relationship. 
••••	 The self-centered and power-obsessed priests of Mammon gain the Thief of Fate (•••) Merit. For 

this reason, priests are prohibited from touching other cultists.
•••••	 The high priestess of Mammon benefits from the tithes of her already wealthy followers. She gains 

three dots of Resources. Additionally, she may make a Resources ••••• purchase once per month 
without limitation, by drawing from the cult’s coffers. 

Sample Cult: Sisters of the Machine Gun, Brothers of the Bomb
The Brothers and Sisters band together with their rudimentary understanding of something they call “the 
God-Machine” in order to prevent its ascendancy to whatever mysterious power it strives for. They’ve 
repurposed artifacts and reverse-engineered their power into more technological weapons to fight back 
the darkness. The Brothers and Sisters tend toward universities and other places of learning, where a bit of 
esoteric knowledge can bleed through the mundane and open eyes to the truths of the universe. 
Cultists: God-Machine survivor, librarian-turned-networker, militant defender (Sister Machine Gun), 
second-generation mentor, tech expert (Brother Bomb)
Initiation Benefits
•	 New recruits, while not yet trusted, receive training to better spot the influence of the God-Machine. 

They gain an Occult Specialty in The God-Machine. 
••	 Small cells of the Brothers and Sisters network through a handful of active initiates. For this reason, 

all initiates gain Contacts • (Brothers and Sisters) free of charge.
•••	 Respected initiates that have proven they’re likely to survive more than a few years are taught the 

secrets of repurposing holy artifacts into weapons. By destroying such an artifact, they can give one 
weapon the ability to hurt spirits and ghosts. 

••••	 At higher ranks within the organization, members are assigned wards and students. Take three dots in 
Retainers, allocated as the player sees fit (that is, one three-dot Retainer, three one-dot Retainers, etc.). 

•••••	 The highest-ranking Brothers and Sisters were mostly first contact survivors. They’ve seen more of 
the God-Machine’s influence than most anyone still standing. They gain a modified version of the 
Encyclopedic Knowledge Merit relating directly to the God-Machine. 

the cult exists. Usually it’s tied in with the cult’s history and In addition to standing, a Mystery Cult Initiation Merit of-
recent background. Second is a Relic. This is an item that fers benefits at each level of influence. Develop these as well. 
grounds members’ faith. For example, a piece of the God- The following are guidelines; use them to craft your cults:
Machine, an ancient text bound in human flesh, or the 
mummified flesh of a saint. The last is a Doctrine. Every •	 A Skill Specialty or one-dot Merit, pertaining to 
cult is defined by its rules and traditions. the lessons taught to initiates. 

52 
the face in the mirror-Characters



••	 A one-dot Merit. Valley compared to one set in the Detroit slums. One dot is 
a little spending money here and there. Two is a comfortable, 

•••	  A Skill dot, or a two-dot Merit (often a supernatu- middle class wage. Three is a nicer, upper middle class life. 
ral Merit). Four is moderately wealthy. Five is filthy rich. 

•••• Every item has an Availability rating. Once per chapter, your 
	 A three-dot Merit, often supernatural in origin. 

character can procure an item at her Resources level or lower, 
•••••	 A three-dot Merit, or a major advantage not re- without issue. An item one Availability above her Resources 

flected in game traits. reduces her effective Resources by one dot for a full month, since 
she has to rapidly liquidate funds. She can procure items two 

Pusher (•) Availability below her Resources without limit (within reason). 
For example, a character with Resources •••• can procure as 

Prerequisite: Persuasion •• many Availability •• disposable cellphones as she needs.
Effect: Your character tempts and bribes as second nature. 

Any time a mark in a Social interaction accepts his soft lever- Retainer (• to •••••)
age (see p. 82), improve your Impression as if you’d satisfied Effect: Your character has an assistant, sycophant, ser-
his Vice as well as moving the impression up on the chart. vant, or follower on whom she can rely. Establish who this 

Resources (• to •••••) companion is, and how he was acquired. It may be as simple 
as a paycheck. He might owe your character his life. However 

Effect: This Merit reflects your character’s disposable in- it happened, your character has a hold on him. 
come. She might live in an upscale condo, but if her income A Retainer is more reliable than a Mentor, and more 
is tied up in the mortgage and child support payments, she loyal than an Ally. On the other hand, a Retainer is a lone 
might have little money to throw around. Characters are as- person, less capable and influential than the broader Merits. 
sumed to have basic necessities without Resources. The Merit’s dot rating determines the relative competency 

The dot rating determines the relative amount of dispos- of the Retainer. A one-dot Retainer is barely able to do 
able funding the character has available, depending on your anything of use, such as a pet that knows one useful trick, 
particular chronicle’s setting. The same amount of money or a homeless old man that does minor errands for food. A 
means completely different things in a game set in Silicon three-dot Retainer is a professional in their field, someone 

53 
Social Merits



capable in his line of work. A five-dot is one of the best in For every dot in this Merit, choose one type of assistant, and 
her class. If a Retainer needs to make a roll, and it’s within one Skill. At any reasonable time, his staff can take actions 
her field, double the dot rating and use it as a dice pool. For using that Skill. These actions automatically garner a single 
anything else, use the dot rating as a dice pool. success. While not useful in contested actions, this guarantees 

This Merit can be purchased multiple times to represent success on minor, mundane activities. Note that your character 
multiple Retainers. may have employees without requiring the Staff Merit; Staff 

simply adds a mechanical advantage for those groups.
Safe Place (• to •••••)

Effect: Your character has somewhere she can go where Status (• to •••••)
she can feel secure. While she may have enemies that could Effect: Your character has standing, membership, author-
attack her there, she’s prepared and has the upper hand. ity, control over, or respect from a group or organization. This 
The dot rating reflects the security of the place. The actual can reflect official standing, or merely informal respect. No 
location, the luxury, and the size are represented by equip- matter the source, your character enjoys certain privileges 
ment. A one-dot Safe Place might be equipped with basic within that structure.
security systems or a booby trap at the windows and door. A Each instance of this Merit reflects standing in a differ-
five-dot could have a security crew, infrared scanners at every ent group or organization. Your character may have Status 
entrance, or trained dogs. Each place can be an apartment, (The Luck Gang) •••, Status (Drag Racing Circuit) ••, and 
a mansion, or a hidey-hole. Status (Police) •. Each affords its own unique benefits. As 

Unlike most Merits, multiple characters can contribute you increase dot ratings, your character rises in prominence 
dots to a single Safe Place, combining their dots into some- in the relevant group. 
thing greater. A Safe Place gives an Initiative bonus equal Status only allows advantages within the confines of 
to the Merit dots. This only applies to a character with dots the group reflected in the Merit. Status (Organized Crime) 
invested in the Safe Place. won’t help if your character wants an official concealed carry 

Any efforts to breach the Safe Place suffer a penalty equal to firearms permit, for example. 
the Merit dots invested. If the character desires, the Safe Place Status provides a number of advantages: 
can include traps that cause intruders lethal damage equal to a First, your character can apply her Status to any Social roll 
maximum of the Merit rating (player’s choice as to how much with those over which she has authority or sway. 
damage a given trap inflicts). This requires that the character Second, she has access to group facilities, resources, and 
has at least one dot in Crafts. The traps may be avoided with funding. Depending on the group, this could be limited by 
a Dexterity + Larceny roll, penalized by the Safe Place dots. red tape and requisitioning processes. It’s also dependent on 

the resources the particular group has available. 
Small Unit Tactics (••) Third, she has pull. If she knows a character’s Mentor, 

Prerequisites: Resources, Retainer, Contacts, or Allies, she can block their 
 Presence •••

Effect: usage. Once per chapter, she can stop a single Merit from 
 Your character is a proficient leader in the field. 

being used, if it’s of a lower dot rating than her Status, and 
She can organize efforts and bark orders to remarkable ef-

if it makes sense for her organization to obstruct that type 
fect. Once per scene, when making a coordinated action 

of person’s behavior. In our Organized Crime example, if 
that was planned in advance, spend a point of Willpower 

your character knows that the chief of police has Contacts 
and an instant action. A number of characters equal to your 

(Criminal Informant), you may opt to block usage by threat-
character’s Presence can benefit from the +3 bonus gained 

ening the informant into silence.
from the Willpower expenditure. 

Drawback: Status requires upkeep, and often regular du-

Spin Doctor (•) ties. If these duties are not upheld, the Status may be lost. The 
dots will not be accessible until the character re-establishes her 

Prerequisites: Manipulation •••, Subterfuge •• standing. In our Organized Crime example, your character 
Effect: Your character can fast-talk and sell bullshit stories may be expected to pay protection money, offer tribute to a 

as if they were completely flawless. When suffering from higher authority, or undertake felonious activities.
Tainted Clues (see p. 80), your character does not ignore 
successes. Instead, apply a -1 penalty for each relevant Tainted Striking Looks (• or ••)
Clue. Using a Tainted Clue only levies a total -2 penalty with 

Effect: Your character is stunning, alarming, command-
this Merit, which includes the -1 taken in lieu of ignoring 

ing, repulsive, threatening, charming, or otherwise worthy 
successes. 

of attention. Determine how your character looks and how 

Staff (• to •••••) people react to that. For one dot, your character gets a +1 bo-
nus on any Social rolls that would be influenced by his looks. 

Effect: Your character has a crew of workers or assistants at For two dots, the benefit increases to +2. Depending on the 
his disposal. They may be housekeepers, designers, research as- particulars, this might influence Expression, Intimidation, 
sistants, animators, cheap thugs, or whatever else makes sense. Persuasion, Subterfuge, or other rolls. 

54 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Example Status Merits
While Status can apply in a nigh-infinite number of organizations, here is a list of some common Status Merits, 
and suggested dot ratings to give a jumping off point. These examples are still abstractions; a character may 
be a dot level lower or higher and still hold the suggested positions. For example, a police detective may have 
two, three, or four dots of Police Status, and the dot rating just shows her relative influence and respect within 
the precinct. 

Status: Police Status: Hellfire Club
• Paid informant • Pledge 
•• Beat cop •• Initiate
••• Detective ••• Counselor
•••• Sergeant •••• Master
••••• Chief of Police ••••• Grandmaster

Status: Gang Status: Military
• New blood • Private
•• Rank and file •• Corporal
••• Local gang leader ••• Sergeant
•••• Regional enforcer •••• Colonel
••••• Cartel leader ••••• General

Status: Medical Status: Corporate
• Regular candy striper • Contractor, new hire
•• Nurse •• Company man
••• Resident doctor ••• Middle manager
•••• Chief physician •••• Board member
••••• Hospital president ••••• CEO

Drawback: Attention is a double-edged sword. Any rolls a Willpower point to preempt that attempt with one of your 
to spot, notice, or remember your character gain the same own, or another Social action.
dice bonus. Sometimes, your character will draw unwanted 
attention in social situations. This could cause further Takes One to Know One (•)
complications. Effect: Normally, when Uncovering a Clue (see p. 79), 

Sympathetic (••) your character suffers a -2 penalty if the crime aligns with 
his Vice. However, it takes a criminal to know a criminal, 

Effect: Your character is very good at letting others get and your character has a deep-seated understanding of his 
close. This gives him an edge in getting what he wants. At the particular weakness. Instead, take a +2 and the 9-again quality 
beginning of a Social maneuvering attempt, you may choose on any investigation rolls when the crime aligns with your 
to accept a Condition such as Leveraged, or Swooned in order character’s particular Vice. The successful investigation is 
to immediately eliminate two of the subject’s Doors. considered fulfilling his Vice.

Table Turner (•) Taste (•)
Prerequisites: Composure •••, Manipulation •••, Wits ••• Prerequisite: Crafts ••, and a Specialty in Crafts or 
Effects: Your character can turn any attempt to leverage Expression

her into an opportunity. Any time a character initiates a Social Effect: Your character has refined tastes, and can identify 
Maneuvering action against yours (see p. 81), you may spend minor details in fashion, food, architecture, and other forms 

55 
Social Merits



of artistry and craftsmanship. Not only does this give her an Aura Reading (•••)
eye for detail, it makes her a center of attention in critical 
circles. She can also appraise items within her area of exper- Effect: Your character has the psychic ability to perceive 
tise. With a Wits + Skill roll, depending on the creation in auras, the ephemeral halos of energy that surround all liv-
question (Expression for poetry, Crafts for architecture, for ing things. This allows her to perceive a subject’s emotional 
example), your character can pick out obscure details about state, and potentially any supernatural nature. The colors of 
the item that other, less discerning minds would not. For an aura show a person’s general disposition, and the ebbs, 
each success, ask one of the following questions, or take a flows, tone, and other oddities reveal other influences. Note 
+1 bonus to any Social rolls pertaining to groups interested that your character may not know what she’s looking at when 
in the art assessed for the remainder of the scene. seeing something odd in an aura. For example, she may not 

know that a pale aura means she’s seeing a vampire, unless 
•	 What is the hidden meaning in this? she’s confirmed other vampiric auras in the past. 

•	 What was the creator feeling during its creation? To activate Aura Reading, spend a point of Willpower 
and roll Wits + Empathy minus the subject’s Composure. 

•	 What’s its weakest point? Perceiving an aura takes an uninterrupted moment of star-
ing, which could look suspicious even to the unaware. For 

•	 Which other witness is most moved by this piece? every success, ask the subject’s player one of the following 
questions. Alternatively, take +1 on Social rolls against the 

•	 How should one best appreciate this piece? character during the same scene, due to the character’s un-
derstanding of their emotional state. 

True Friend (•••) •	 What’s your character’s most prominent emotion? 
Effect: Your character has a True Friend. While that 

friend may have specific functions covered by other Merits •	 Is your character telling the truth? 
(Allies, Contacts, Retainer, Mentor, et cetera), True Friend •	 What is your character’s attention most focused on 
represents a deeper, truly trusting relationship that cannot right now? 
be breached. Unless your character does something egregious 
to cause it, her True Friend will not betray her. Additionally, •	 Is your character going to attack? 
the Storyteller cannot kill her True Friend as part of a plot 
without your express permission. Any rolls to influence a •	 What emotion is your character trying most to hide?
True Friend against your character suffer a five-die penalty. 
In addition, once per story, your character can regain one •	 Is your character supernatural or otherwise not 
spent Willpower by having a meaningful interaction with human? 
her True Friend. Determine how your character perceives auras. Maybe she sees 

different hues as different emotions. Perhaps she hears whispers 
Untouchable (•) in the back of her mind, reflecting subtle truths about her subject. 

Drawback: Because of your character’s sensitivity to the 
Prerequisites: Manipulation •••, Subterfuge ••

supernatural, she sometimes appears to know ‘a little too 
Effect: Your character commits crimes, and is always a 

much.’ No more than once per chapter, when first meeting 
step ahead of pursuers. Because of his methodical planning, 

a supernatural creature, the Storyteller can roll Wits + Occult 
any roll to investigate him suffers the Incomplete Clue tag 

for the creature, penalized by your character’s Composure. 
(see p. 80) unless it achieves exceptional success.

If successful, they get a strange feeling that your character is 

Supernatural Merits aware of their nature. They’re not forced to behave in any 
particular way, but it could cause complications.

These Merits require the character remain human (non-
supernatural.) If the character becomes a vampire, ghoul, Automatic Writing (••)
mage, or any other supernatural character type, these Merits Your character can enter a trance of sorts, in which she’s 
disappear. Per the Sanctity of Merits (see p. 43), these Merits temporarily overtaken by a spirit or ghost, and compelled to 
can be reallocated. write mysterious things. 

These Merits each have a deeply mystical bent, and may Effect: Your character must meditate for at least one min-
not be right for every chronicle. If you’re allowing certain ute. Spend a point of Willpower and roll Wits + Composure 
Supernatural Merits in your chronicle, discuss this with your to enter the trance. For every success, your character writes 
players before they make their characters. Some chronicles a single statement or clue about something occurring in the 
(including the God-Machine Chronicles in this book) suggest area or relating to a pertinent issue. The Storyteller provides 
certain Supernatural Merits as part of their hooks. If this is these clues, and they may at first seem completely nonsensi-
the case, mention them to your players and encourage them cal. Characters may attempt to interpret the clues with Wits 
to consider these Merits. + Investigation or research efforts. 

56 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Drawback: If the roll fails, or the character does not damage, or one level of lethal damage. Three successes allows 
employ a personal item of a local spirit in the meditation, for a single point of aggravated damage. 
she’s haunted afterward. Any time she fails a roll for the Drawback: For every two points of damage healed 
next week, it’s considered dramatic as the spirit intervenes (rounded up), your character suffers a single point of the 
in complicating and sometimes dangerous ways. same type of damage. Additionally, your character may heal 

diseases and other ailments. The Storyteller assigns a target 
Biokinesis (• to •••••) number of successes between one (the common cold) and 

Effect: ten (flesh-eating bacteria). This takes an extended action, and 
Your character has the ability to psychically alter 

the character suffers a minor version of the illness. 
his biological makeup. By spending a Willpower point and 
concentrating for a full minute, he can shift his Physical 
Attributes, moving dots from one to another. He can shift one Medium (•••)
dot in an Attribute per dot in this Merit. This shift lasts for Prerequisite: Empathy ••
one hour. This can shift an Attribute no higher than five dots. Effect: Your character hears the words and moans of the 

Also, the character heals quickly. Halve all healing times. dead. If he takes the time to parse their words, he can interact 
with them verbally. 

Clairvoyance (•••) Your character has more than just a knack for knowing 

Effect: when ephemeral beings are lurking nearby, he can reach 
Your character can project her senses to another 

out and make contact with them. By conducting a ritual, 
location. She sees, hears, smells, and otherwise experiences 

meditating, or otherwise preparing to commune with the 
the other place as if she were there. This ability requires a 

unseen, and succeeding at a Wits + Occult roll, he temporarily 
point of Willpower to activate, successful meditation, and a 

increases the relevant Condition one step along the progres-
Wits + Occult roll.

Suggested Modifiers: sion from nothing, to Anchor, Resonance, or Infrastructure, 
 Has an object important to the 

to Open, and finally to Controlled (see p. 133 for more on 
place (+1), never been there (-3), scrying for a person and 

Conditions as they relate to spirits). The effect lasts until he 
not a place (-3), scrying for non-specific location (-4), spent 

spends a Willpower point, but if an Influence has been used 
significant time there (+2), touching someone with a strong 

to progress the Condition further, doing so only reduces it 
connection to the place (+1)

Drawback: by one step.
 When choosing this ability, determine how 

Drawback: Speaking with ghosts can be a blessing, but 
your character is able to scry. It may be through a crystal 

your character cannot turn the sense off, any more than he 
ball, through a drug-induced trance, with esoteric computer 

can turn off his hearing. The character hears the words of 
models, or any other reasonable method. She cannot scry 

the dead any time they’re present. Once per game session, 
without that tool or methodology. 

usually in a time of extreme stress, the Storyteller may deliver 

Cursed (••) a disturbing message to your character from the other side. 
You must succeed in a Resolve + Composure roll or gain 

Effect: Your character has run afoul of fate. Somewhere, either the Shaken or Spooked Condition.
somehow, he’s been cursed. Most importantly, he’s aware of 
the curse. When taking this Merit, define the limitations of Mind of a Madman (••)
the curse. Usually, it’s expressed in the form of a single state-

Prerequisite: Empathy •••
ment, such as, “On the eve of your twenty-seventh birthday, 

Effect: Your character gets deep under the skin of prob-
you will feast upon your doom.” It’s important to work out 

lems. If she’s investigating a crime or other phenomenon, she 
the details with the Storyteller. The curse must take effect 

can put herself in the mind of the culprit. This often helps 
within the scope of the planned chronicle. 

with the case, however, it takes her to a dark place internally. 
While he knows how he’ll die, this is a liberating experi-

Once she’s made the choice to sink into the culprit’s 
ence. He’s confident of the method of his death, so nothing 

mindset (which usually involves intense meditation or pe-
else fazes him. Gain a +2 on any Resolve + Composure roll 

rusal of the culprit’s crimes), she gains 8-again on all rolls to 
to face fear or self-doubt. Any time he takes lethal damage in 

investigate, pursue, and stop the culprit. But once per night, 
his last three health boxes, take an additional Beat. 

while she sleeps, she dreams about the culprit’s crimes and 

Laying on Hands (•••) theoretical future crimes. This is intensely traumatic; it drives 
her further on the hunt. If she spends the day without pursu-

Your character’s faith or force of devotion becomes a ing the culprit, make a roll to resist a breaking point as if she’d 
wholesome force that heals the sick and mends injuries. committed the crime herself. She can resist the dreams and 
However, she takes some of those injuries upon herself by the degeneration rolls by avoiding sleep, but she’s subject to 
proxy. normal deprivation effects. Additionally, until the culprit’s 

Effect: By spending a Willpower point, touching the sick captured, any of her own rolls to resist degeneration from 
or wounded, and rolling Presence + Empathy, your character things she’s done suffer a -1 penalty.
may heal them. Every success heals two points of bashing 

57 
Supernatural Merits



Omen Sensitivity (•••) Spend a point of Willpower to activate Psychokinesis, 
and roll Resolve + Occult. Each success allows a degree of 

Effect: Your character sees signs and patterns in every- manipulation; choose one of the following options below. If 
thing. From the way the leaves fall, to the spray of antifreeze you intend to cause harm with the roll, subtract the victim’s 
when his radiator pops, to the ratios of circumference on the Resolve from the Resolve + Occult roll. If characters should 
shell he picked up on the sidewalk, everything has meaning. be harmed without a direct attack, for example, if they run 
With some consideration, he can interpret these meanings. through a patch of flame, the three-dot version of the Merit 
This would be far better if he could turn it off. Everything causes one lethal damage, and the five-dot version causes 
is important. Everything could mean the end of the world, two. The Storyteller may rule that larger manifestations may 
the deaths of his friends, or other tragedies. If he misses an cause more, if the situation calls for it. 
omen, it might be the wrong one. 

Once per game session, you can make a Wits + Occult roll •	 Increase or decrease the Size of the manifestation by 1. 
for your character to interpret an omen in his surroundings. •	 Move the manifestation a number of yards equal to 
For every success, ask the Storyteller a yes or no question your character’s Willpower dots times 2. 
about your character’s life, his surroundings, a task at hand, 
or the world at large. The Storyteller must answer these •	 Shape the force into a specific form. This may require 
questions truthfully. an Intelligence + Crafts roll to form it into a detailed 

Drawback: His ability becomes an obsession. Each time he or intricate shape. 
reads a portent, he gains the Obsession or Spooked Condition. 

•	 Attack a victim with the force. Allocate any number of 
Numbing Touch (• to •••••) the rolled successes to cause harm. With the three-dot 

Merit, Psychokinesis is a weapon causing one lethal 
With Numbing Touch, your character’s psychic gifts damage. Psychokinesis is considered a two lethal 

allow her to numb a person, rendering them sluggish and weapon with the five-dot version.
incompetent. With intense concentration, she can cause 
neurons to shut down. •	 Use the force creatively. This is up to the situation and 

Effect: This Merit has two effects. With the first, your the force in question. For example, an Electrokinetic 
character may numb with a single touch and a point of may use his ability to power an electronic device briefly 
Willpower. Against an unwilling subject, roll Intelligence + or to jumpstart a stalled automobile. 
Empathy + Numbing Touch, contested by Stamina plus Blood 
Potency or another Supernatural Tolerance trait. If successful, •	 Manifest his force. This only works with the five-dot 
Numbing Touch takes effect. An affected character suffers no version. It manifests a Size 1 patch of the force. It may 
wound penalties, but suffers a penalty equal to your charac- spread or be enlarged with further successes. 
ter’s Numbing Touch dots to all dice pools requiring manual Drawback: Whenever your character depletes his last 
dexterity or sensory perception. These penalties fade by one Willpower point, the Storyteller can call on his abilities 
every turn, until they are gone completely. Alternatively, the to manifest spontaneously. Resist this with a Resolve + 
character may focus her gift into a ‘psychic weapon’ by spending Composure roll, with a -2 penalty if his chosen force is promi-
a point of Willpower, at a range of up to a foot from her hands nently featured nearby. For example, the penalty applies if a 
or face. When the invisible ‘weapon’ strikes an opponent, the Pyrokinetic is locked in a factory with a hot forge. This tends 
character may spend an additional point of Willpower to lash to happen during wildly inconvenient moments, and in ways 
out at the victim’s nervous system. In addition to the normal that usually cause more trouble than they solve. With these wild 
effects of Numbing Touch –which do not receive a contested manifestations, use of Psychokinesis does not cost Willpower. 
roll– the victim loses Willpower points equal to your character’s 
Numbing Touch dots. If she has no Willpower points to lose, Psychometry (•••)
additional points become levels of lethal damage. This can be 
employed as part of an unarmed attack. Effect: Psychometry is the psychic ability to read impres-

sions left on physical objects. Your character can feel the 
Psychokinesis (••• or •••••) emotional resonance left on an item, or can perceive impor-

tant events tied to a location with this ability. The ability 
Effect: Your character has a psychic ability to manipulate automatically hones in on the most emotionally intense 

the forces of the universe. Every type of Psychokinetic is dif- moment tied to the item. 
ferent. For example, your character might have Pyrokinesis, Spend a Willpower point to activate Psychometry. The 
Cryokinesis, or Electrokinesis, the control of fire, cold, or successes scored on a Wits + Occult roll determine the clarity 
electricity, respectively. This is not an exhaustive list. He of the visions. For each success, you may ask a single yes or 
can intensify, shape, and douse his particular area of ability. no question of the Storyteller, or one of the following ques-
With the three-dot version, some of the given force must be tions. For questions pertaining to specific characters, if your 
present for him to manipulate. With the five-dot version, he character hasn’t met the person in question, the Storyteller 
can manifest it from nothingness. may simply describe them.

58 
the face in the mirror-Characters



•	 What’s the strongest emotion here? her mind’s effective Strength for the purpose of lifting and 
otherwise influencing her environment. 

•	 Who remembers this moment the most? A Telekinetic can use her abilities to cause harm by lashing 
•	 Am I missing something in this scene? out at threats. Each such “attack” costs a point of Willpower. 

The dice pool to attack is Telekinesis + Occult, penalized by 
•	 Where was this object during the event? the opponent’s Stamina. The attack causes bashing damage. 

Alternatively, it can be used to grapple, with the Merit dots 
•	 What breaking point caused the event? representing the Strength score of the psychic. Any overpower-

Suggested Modifiers: Character has read impressions ing maneuvers require additional Willpower points. 
from this item before (-2), important event happened more Drawback: Any time your character suffers injury or 
than one day ago (-1), more than one week ago (-2), more intense stimuli, the Storyteller may call for a Resolve + 
than one month ago (-3), more than one year ago (-5), item Composure roll to resist activating Telekinesis at an inoppor-
was used in a violent crime (+2), item is only vaguely tied to tune time. If the Storyteller calls for this roll and it fails, the 
the event (-2), spirits pertaining to the event are nearby (+3) character activates Telekinesis in a quick, impressive display 

Drawback: Once per chapter, the Storyteller can force a of the power. That use of Telekinesis is free. The player can 
Psychometry vision any time an important place is visited, or choose to automatically fail the Resolve + Composure roll 
an important item is touched. This doesn’t require a roll or a and take a Beat.
Willpower point to activate. The Storyteller can give any infor-
mation pertaining to the event in question. Additionally, the Telepathy (••• or •••••)
Storyteller can impose one Condition relevant to the event. Effect: Your character can hear surface thoughts and 

read minds. With the five-dot version of this Merit, he can 
Telekinesis (• to •••••) broadcast simple messages to others’ minds. He hears these 

Effect: Your character has a psychic ability to manipulate thoughts as if they were spoken, which means they can 
the physical world with her mind. This means lifting, pushing, sometimes be distracting. He can only hear thoughts at the 
and pulling objects. Fine manipulation is beyond the scope of range he can normal conversation, regardless of any ambient 
Telekinesis. By spending a Willpower point, she can activate noise (so a telepath can hear the thoughts of someone next 
Telekinesis for the scene. Her dots in this Merit determine to him at a loud concert, even though he can’t actually hear 

59 
Supernatural Merits



the subject talk, but cannot hear the thoughts of someone a she has a cold chill. Regardless, she knows that something 
football field away under quiet conditions). isn’t right when she is in the immediate proximity of the ap-

Spend a point of Willpower to activate Telepathy, and roll propriate supernatural being. Once per chapter, the player 
Wits + Empathy, minus the subject’s Resolve if the subject can accept the Spooked Condition (p. 290), in exchange for 
is unwilling. If successful, the subject’s player must tell you which the character can pinpoint where the feeling is coming 
the foremost thought on the character’s mind. Additional from. If the target is using a power that specifically cloaks its 
successes allow you to ask the subject’s player additional ques- supernatural nature, however, this does not work (though 
tions from the following list. The questions can be asked at the Condition remains until resolved as usual). 
any time within the same scene. With the five-dot version, 
every success offers a single phrase the subject hears as if Fighting Merits
your character said it. As before, these phrases can be com-
municated at any time during the same scene. Some Merits in this section have other Merits as prerequi-

sites. These are refinements of form and additional areas of 
•	 What does your character want right now? expertise. For example, Iron Skin requires Martial Arts ••. 
•	 What does your character fear most right now? This means you must have two dots in Martial Arts before 

buying dots in Iron Skin.
•	 What is your character hiding? Many Fighting Style Merits require a character to sacrifice 

their Defense. Defense cannot be sacrificed multiple times 
•	 What does your character want mine to do? in a turn; this prevents certain maneuvers from being used 

together. 
•	 What does your character know about [relevant topic 

at hand]? Armed Defense (• to •••••; Style)
•	 What turns your character on right now? Prerequisites: Dexterity •••, Weaponry ••, Defensive 

Combat: Weaponry
•	 What’s something shameful or embarrassing about You’re able to use a weapon to stop people who are try-

your character? ing to kill you. Often deployed by police officers using riot 
Drawback: Sometimes your character hears things he shields or telescoping batons, it’s just as effective while using 

probably shouldn’t. Once per chapter, the Storyteller can a chair leg.
give your character a message of terrible things to come. Cover the Angles (•): Whenever you take a Dodge action, 
Perhaps he overhears the mad, internal ramblings of a cultist reduce the Defense penalties for multiple attackers by 1. You 
in a crowd. Maybe he hears a plot to hijack a plane. Maybe, can apply your full Defense against the first two attacks, suffer 
just maybe, he hears the incoherent thoughts of the God- a -1 penalty against the third, and so on.
Machine. These heard thoughts never just occur. They always Weak Spot (••): You swing against your opponent’s arm, 
happen when your character has something else, something rather than his own weapon. Use this ability when defending 
important and pressing going on. When this happens, the against an armed attacker. If your Defense reduces his attack 
Storyteller gives you a Condition such as Spooked or Shaken. pool to 0, he’s disarmed. If you Dodge, you disarm your op-

ponent if your Defense roll reduces his attack successes to 0.
Thief of Fate (•••) Aggressive Defense (•••): Anyone dumb enough to come 

near you is liable to get hurt. When you take a Dodge action, 
Effect: Your character is a magnet for fortune and fate. 

if you score more successes than any attacker, you deal one 
When she’s close to someone, she unintentionally steals their 

point of lethal damage to the attacker per extra success. Your 
good fortune. If she touches someone, this Merit takes effect 

weapon bonus doesn’t apply to this extra damage.
unless she spends a point of Willpower to curb the effect for 

Drawback: You must spend a point of Willpower and 
a scene. In the same day, any failures the subject makes are 

declare that you are using Aggressive Defense at the start of 
considered dramatic failures. If she’s used this Merit at any 

the turn. You cannot combine this maneuver with Press the 
time in a given day, she gains four dice any time she spends 

Advantage or Weak Spot.
Willpower to increase a dice pool.

Iron Guard (••••): You and your weapon are one. At the 
Drawback: Once a victim of this Merit suffers a dramatic 

start of each turn, you can choose to reduce your weapon 
failure, he hears your character’s name in the back of his 

bonus (down to a minimum of 0) to increase your Defense 
mind. This may inspire scrutiny.

by a like amount. If you take a Dodge action, add your full 

Unseen Sense (••) weapon bonus to your Defense after doubling your pool.
Press the Advantage (•••••): You create an opening with 

Effect: Your character has a “sixth sense” for a type of a block, and lash out with a fist or foot. When you’re taking 
supernatural creature, chosen when you buy the Merit. For a Dodge action, if your Defense roll reduces the attacker’s 
example, you may choose Unseen Sense: Vampires, or Unseen successes to 0, you can make an unarmed attack against that 
Sense: Fairies. The sense manifests differently for everyone. opponent at a -2 penalty. Your opponent applies Defense 
Her hair stands on end, she becomes physically ill, or perhaps as normal. 

60 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Drawback: Spend a point of Willpower to make the Prep Work (••••): If your character has a second to look 
attack. You can only make one attack per turn in this way. around, he can catch someone by surprise almost anywhere. 

When launching a surprise attack, your Dexterity + Stealth 
Cheap Shot (••) roll becomes a rote action.

Prerequisites: Drawback: Your character can’t use this Merit to set up 
 Street Fighting •••, Subterfuge ••

Effect: sniper attacks — his ambush must use Brawl or Weaponry.
 Your character is a master at the bait and switch. 

Turnabout (•••••): If your character’s caught short in a 
She can look off in an odd direction and prompt her oppo-

fight, his opponent’s weapon suits him just fine. When he 
nent to do the same, or she might step on his toes to distract 

attempts to Disarm his opponent, step the results up one level 
him. She fights dirty. Make a Dexterity + Subterfuge roll as 

— on a failure, his opponent drops the weapon. On a success, 
a reflexive action. The opponent’s player contests with Wits 

your character takes possession of his opponent’s weapon. On 
+ Composure. If you score more successes, the opponent 

an exceptional success, your character has the weapon and 
loses his Defense for the next turn. Each time a character 

his opponent takes two points of bashing damage.
uses this maneuver in a scene, it levies a cumulative -2 penalty 
to further uses since the opposition gets used to the tricks. Defensive Combat (•)
Choke Hold (••) Prerequisite: Brawl • or Weaponry •; choose one when 

Prerequisites: this Merit is selected
 Brawl ••

Effect: Your character is trained in avoiding damage in 
If you can get your hands on someone, they’re putty in 

combat. Use her Brawl or Weaponry to calculate Defense, 
your hands. When grappling, your character can use the 

rather than Athletics. Your character can learn both versions 
Choke move:

• Choke: of this Merit, allowing you to use any of the three Skills to 
 If you rolled more successes than twice the vic-

calculate Defense. However, you cannot use Weaponry to cal-
tim’s Stamina, he’s unconscious for (six - Stamina) minutes. 

culate Defense unless she actually has a weapon in her hand.
You must first have succeeded at a Hold move. If you don’t 
score enough successes at first, you can Choke on future 
turns and total your successes. Fighting Finesse (••)

Prerequisites: Dexterity •••, a Specialty in Weaponry 
Close Quarters Combat  or Brawl

(• to •••••; Style) Effect: Choose a Specialty in Weaponry or Brawl when 
you purchase this Merit. Your character’s extensive training 

Prerequisites: Wits •••, Athletics ••, Brawl ••• in that particular weapon or style has allowed them to benefit 
Your character knows that hitting someone in the face more from their alacrity and agility than their strength. You 

is an easy way to break the little bones in his hand. To that may substitute your character’s Dexterity for her Strength 
end, he’s perfected the art of using the environment to hurt when making rolls with that Specialty.
people. This Merit may be purchased multiple times to gain its 

Firing Lines (•): In some situations, your character’s best benefit with multiple Specialties. 
option is a tactical retreat — especially if he’s inadvertently 
brought a knife to a gunfight. He can run for cover as a reac- Firefight (• to •••; Style)
tion to a ranged attack instead of dropping prone. You give 

Prerequisites: Composure •••, Dexterity •••, Athletics 
up your action for the turn, but your character can get to any ••, Firearms ••
cover that’s within twice his Speed.

Effect: Your character is comfortable with a gun. She’s 
Hard Surfaces (••): Bouncing someone’s head off a 

been trained in stressful situations, and knows how to keep 
urinal, computer monitor, or brick wall is a handy way to 

herself from being shot, while still shooting at her opponents. 
increase the amount of hurt inflicted while not breaking the 

This Style is about moving, strafing, and taking shots when 
aforementioned hand bones. When your character is grap-

you get them. It’s not a series of precision techniques; it’s for 
pling someone, he can bounce them off a hard surface with 

using a gun practically in a real-world situation. 
a Damage move. He deals lethal damage, then immediately 

Shoot First (•): In a firefight, the person shot first is usually 
ends the grapple.

the loser. Your character has trained herself to fire first in an 
Armored Coffin (•••): The problem with protection is 

altercation. If her gun is drawn, add her Firearms score to her 
simple: the very things that protect your opponents can be 

Initiative. If she has Quick Draw, she can use Shoot First to draw 
turned against them. That holds true for body armor just as 

and fire with increased Initiative in the first turn of combat. 
much as anything else. Sure, it blocks bullets and knives, but 

Suppressive Fire (••): Sometimes, the purpose of a shot 
get in a clinch and your character’s opponent might as well 

is to distract, not necessarily to hit. Your character is trained 
be wearing a straightjacket. When he grapples an opponent, 

to fire off a handful of rounds with the intent to startle oppo-
add their general armor rating to your dice pool. When he 

nents and force impulse reactions. When using the Covering 
uses a Damage move, ignore his opponent’s armor. This 

Fire maneuver (p. 90), her opponents cannot benefit from 
technique can’t be used in conjunction with Hard Surfaces.

61 
Fighting Merits



aiming against her. She can apply her Defense against in- Bring the Pain (•••): Your character’s strikes stun and 
coming Firearms attacks, in addition to any cover bonuses. incapacitate as well as causing massive trauma to the body. 
Additionally, her training allows her to use Suppressive Fire Sacrifice your character’s Defense to use Bring the Pain. Make 
with a semi-automatic weapon. a standard attack roll. Any damage you score with Bring the 

Secondary Target (•••): Sometimes, shooting an op- Pain counts as a penalty to all actions the victim takes dur-
ponent behind cover is all but impossible. However, a bullet ing their next turn. So, if you cause four lethal damage, the 
can knock objects off balance, or cause ricochets. By using opponent is at -4 on their next attack.
Secondary Target, your character opts not to hit her target, Warding Stance (••••): Your character holds her weapon 
but instead strike them with any collateral objects that might in such a way as to make attacks much harder. If her weapon’s 
be nearby. She causes bashing damage instead of lethal, but drawn, spend a point of Willpower reflexively to add her 
ignores all cover penalties to the roll. The weapon’s damage weapon’s damage rating as armor for the turn. This will not 
rating does not add to the damage in this case. protect against firearms. 

Rending (•••••): Your character’s cuts leave crippling, 
Grappling (• to •••; Style) permanent wounds. By spending a Willpower point before 

Prerequisites: making an attack roll, her successful attacks cause one level 
 Stamina •••, Strength ••, Athletics ••, 

Brawl •• of aggravated damage in addition to her weapon’s damage 

Effect: rating. This Willpower point does not add to the attack roll. 
 Your character has trained in wrestling, or one of 

many grappling martial arts.  
Sprawl (•): Your character can adjust his weight to defend Improvised Weaponry  

himself in a grapple. While in a grapple, the character’s op- (• to •••; Style)
ponent cannot apply the Drop Prone or Take Cover moves. 

Prerequisites: Wits •••, Weaponry •
Takedown (••): Your character can take an opponent to 

Most people don’t walk around armed. While someone 
the ground rapidly. With a normal roll, you may choose to 

pulling a knife or a gun can cool a hostile situation down, it 
render an opponent prone instead of establishing a grapple. 

can also cause things to boil over — an argument that wouldn’t 
Also, you may choose to cause bashing damage equal to the 

be more than harsh words suddenly ends up with three 
successes rolled.

people in the morgue. If your character is on the receiving 
Joint Lock (•••): ou use joint locks and immobilizing 

end of someone pulling a knife, it helps to have something 
tactics to limit your opponent’s movement. You can use the 

in his hand as well.
Joint Lock move in a grapple. Next turn, your opponent 

Your character is good at making do with what he’s got. 
suffers bashing damage equal to your successes. You can use 

Sometimes he’s lucky — if your character’s in a bar, he’s 
Joint Lock as a lead-in to the Restrain move. In addition, any 

got a lot of glass bottles, or maybe a pool cue, to play with. 
successful overpowering maneuvers your character uses cause 

However, he’s got something like a sixth sense, and can find 
1L damage in addition to their normal effects.

a weapon almost anywhere.

Heavy Weapons (• to •••••; Style) Always Armed (•): Your character can always get his 
hands on something dangerous, and he has an instinctive 

Prerequisites: Stamina •••, Strength •••, Athletics ••, understanding of how to put it to good — and deadly — use. At 
Weaponry •• the start of your turn, make a reflexive Wits + Weaponry roll 

Effect: Your character is trained with heavy weapons to grab an object suitable for use as a weapon in pretty much 
which require strength, wide range, and follow through more any environment. (The player is encouraged to work with the 
than direct speed and accuracy. This Style may be used with Storyteller to determine an appropriate item — a large, jagged 
a two-handed weapon such as a claymore, chainsaw, pike, or rock in the wilderness, for example, or a heavy glass ashtray 
an uprooted street sign. with one sharp, broken edge in a dive bar.) Regardless of 

Sure Strike (•): Your character doesn’t always hit the what he picks up, the weapon has a +0 weapon modifier, -1 
hardest or the most frequently, but she guarantees a deadly initiative penalty, Size 1, Durability 2, and Structure 4. On 
strike when she does hit. You can reflexively remove three an exceptional success, increase the weapon modifier and 
dice from any attack dice pool (to a minimum of zero) to add Size by 1, but the initiative penalty increases to -2. Whatever 
one to your character’s weapon damage rating for the turn. your character grabs doesn’t cause you to suffer the normal 
These dice must be removed after calculating any penalties -1 penalty for wielding an improvised weapon (see p. 94).
from the environment or the opponent’s Defense. In Harm’s Way (••): Your character’s got a knack for put-

Threat Range (••): Your character’s weapon is immense ting his weapon in the way of an oncoming attack, no matter 
and keeps opponents at bay. If you opt not to move or Dodge how small or inappropriate for blocking it might be. While 
during your turn, any character moving into your character’s he’s wielding an improvised weapon acquired with Always 
proximity suffers one lethal damage and a penalty to their Armed, you can treat the Structure of your character’s weapon 
Defense equal to your character’s weapon damage rating. as general armor against a single Brawl or Weaponry attack. 
This penalty only lasts for one turn. This cannot be used in Any damage he takes inflicts an equal amount of damage to 
a turn the character is Dodging. the improvised weapon, bypassing Durability. Your character 

62 
the face in the mirror-Characters



can use the weapon to attack later in the same turn, but can Flurry (••••): Your character moves quickly enough to 
only use this ability when applying his Defense to an attack. stab opponents with numerous pricks and swipes in the blink 

Breaking Point (•••): One sure way to win a fight is to of an eye. As long as your character has his Defense available 
hit the other guy so hard that he doesn’t get back up, even to him (if it’s not been sacrificed for another maneuver, or 
if that means losing a weapon in the process. When making denied from surprise, for example), any character coming into 
an all-out attack with an improvised weapon acquired with his immediate proximity takes one point of lethal damage. 
Always Armed, you can reduce the weapon’s Structure by This damage continues once per turn as long as the enemy 
any amount down to a minimum of 0. Every 2 points of stays within range, and occurs on the enemy’s turn. This 
Structure spent in this way adds 1 to the weapon modifier can affect multiple opponents, and cannot be used in a turn 
for that one single attack. Declare any Structure loss before where the character is Dodging. 
making the attack; this Structure is reduced even if the attack Vital Shot (•••••): Your character can use his smaller 
does no damage. If the weapon is reduced to 0 Structure, it weapon to get into an opponent’s defenses and hit where it 
is automatically destroyed after the attack. You can use this hurts most. Sacrifice your character’s Defense for the turn 
technique in conjunction with In Harm’s Way, allowing your to use this maneuver. If the attack roll succeeds, the attack 
character to parry an attack made on a higher Initiative and causes one point of aggravated damage, in addition to the 
then go on the offensive, provided that the weapon wasn’t damage rating of the weapon. 
destroyed.

Marksmanship (• to ••••; Style)
Iron Skin (•• or ••••) Prerequisites: Composure •••, Resolve •••, Firearms ••

Prerequisites: Martial Arts •• or Street Fighting ••, Effect: When prepared and aimed, a gun is an ideal kill-
Stamina ••• ing machine. Your character has trained to take advantage 

Through rigorous conditioning, or extensive scarring, of the greatest features of a gun, usually a rifle, but this Style 
your character has grown resistant to harm. She can shrug can be used with any gun. Because of the discipline and 
off shots that would topple bigger fighters. She knows how patience required for Marksmanship, your character cannot 
to take a strike, and can even move into a hit from a weapon use her Defense during any turn in which she uses one of 
to minimize harm. She gains armor against bashing attacks; these maneuvers. These maneuvers may only be used after 
one point of armor with ••, and two points of armor with aiming for at least one turn. 
••••. By spending a point of Willpower when hit, she can Through the Crosshairs (•): Your character is a competent 
downgrade some lethal damage from a successful attack into sniper, able to sit in position and steel her wits. Usually, the 
bashing. Downgrade one damage at ••, two with ••••.  maximum bonus from aiming is three dice. With Through 

the Crosshairs, it’s equal to her Composure + Firearms. 
Light Weapons (• to •••••; Style) Precision Shot (••): With this level of training, your 

Prerequisites: character knows how to effectively disable a victim instead 
 Wits ••• or Fighting Finesse, Dexterity 

••• of focusing on the kill. When attacking a specified target, 
, Athletics ••, Weaponry ••
Effect: you may reduce your weapon’s damage rating one-for-one to 

 Your character is trained with small hand-to-
ignore penalties for shooting a specified target (see p. 92). 

hand weapons which favor finesse over raw power. These 
For example, if your character is using a sniper rifle (four 

maneuvers may only be used with one-handed weapons with 
damage weapon), and attacking an arm (-2 to hit), you could 

a damage rating of two or less. 
Rapidity (•): choose to use three damage for -1, or two damage to eliminate 

 Your character moves with swiftness to find 
the penalty entirely. 

just the right spot to strike. You can sacrifice your character’s 
A Shot Rings Out (•••): A master sniper, your charac-

weapon damage rating to add his Weaponry score to his 
ter has no worries or lack of confidence. She can fire into 

Initiative for the turn. The weapon becomes a zero damage 
a crowd and strike a specific target without penalty. If she 

weapon for the turn.   
Thrust (••): misses, it’s because her shot goes wide. She will never hit an 

 Your character knows when to defend him-
unintended target. 

self, and when to move in for the kill. At any time, you can 
Ghost (••••): Your character has trained to shoot un-

sacrifice points of Defense one-for-one to add to attack pools. 
seen, and vanish without a trace. Her Firearms score acts 

This cannot happen if you’ve already used Defense in the 
as a penalty on any roll to notice her vantage point, or any 

same turn. If you use this maneuver, you may not sacrifice 
Investigation or Perception roll to investigate the area from 

your full Defense for any other reason. For example, you 
where she was shooting. 

cannot use Thrust with an all-out attack.
Feint (•••): With a flourish in one direction, your char-

acter can distract an opponent for a cleaner, more effective Martial Arts (• to •••••; Style)
follow-up strike. For example, if Feinting with a two damage Prerequisites: Resolve •••, Dexterity •••, Athletics ••, 
weapon with three successes, the attack causes no damage. Brawl ••
However, your next attack ignores five points of Defense, and Effect: Your character is trained in one or more formal mar-
causes three extra points of damage. tial arts styles. This may have come from a personal mentor, a 

63 
Fighting Merits



Police Tactics  
(• to •••; Style)

Prerequisites: Brawl ••, 
Weaponry •

Effect: Your character is 
trained in restraint techniques, 

often used by law enforcement 
officers. This may reflect formal 
training, or lessons from a skilled 
practitioner. 

Compliance Hold (•): Gain a 
+2 bonus to overpowering rolls to 
disarm or immobilize an opponent. 

Weapon Retent ion  (•• ) : 
Opponents attempting to disarm 

dojo, or your character or turn his weapon 
a self-defense class. It may have been against him must exceed your character’s Weaponry score 

for exercise, protection, show, or tradition. These in successes. 
maneuvers may only be used unarmed, or with weapons Speed Cuff (•••): Against an immobilized opponent, 
capable of using the Brawl Skill, such as a punch dagger, your character may apply handcuffs, cable ties, or similar 
or a weapon using the Shiv Merit (see below). restraints as a reflexive action. 

Focused Attack (•): Your character has trained exten-
sively in striking specific parts of an opponent’s body. Shiv (• or ••)
Reduce penalties for hitting specific targets by one. 
Additionally, you may ignore one point of armor on any Prerequisites: Street Fighting ••, Weaponry • 
opponent. Effect: Your character carries small, concealable 

Defensive Strike (••): Your character excels in defend- weapons for use in a tussle. Rolls to detect the concealed 
ing herself while finding the best time to strike. You can weapon suffer your character’s Weaponry score as a pen-
add 1 or 2 points to your character’s Defense. For each alty. With the one-dot version, he can conceal a weapon 
Defense point you take, subtract a die from any attacks you with a zero damage rating. The two-dot version can conceal 
make. This can only be used in a turn in which your char- a one damage rating weapon. Your character may use the 
acter intends to attack. It cannot be used with a Dodge. Brawl Skill to use this weapon. 

Whirlwind Strike (•••): When engaged, your char-
acter becomes a storm of threatening kicks and punches; 
nothing close is safe. As long as your character has 
her Defense available to her, and is not 
Dodging, any character coming into arm’s 
reach takes one bashing damage. This dam-
age continues once per turn as long as the 
enemy stays within range, and occurs on 
the enemy’s turn. If you spend a point 
of Willpower, this damage becomes two 
bashing until your next turn. 

The Hand As Weapon (••••): With 
this degree of training, your character’s 
limbs are hardened to cause massive 
trauma. Her unarmed strikes cause 
lethal damage.

The Touch of Death (•••••): Your 
character’s mastery has brought with 
it the daunting power of causing lethal 
injury with a touch. If she chooses, her 
unarmed strikes count as weapons with two 
damage rating. 

64 
the face in the mirror-Characters



Street Fighting (• to •••••; Style) Unarmed Defense  
Prerequisites: Stamina •••, Composure •••, Brawl ••, (• to •••••; Style)

Streetwise ••
Prerequisites: Dexterity •••, Brawl ••, Defensive 

Effect: Your character learned to fight on the mean streets. 
Combat: Brawl

She may have had some degree of formal training, but the 
Your character is better at stopping people from hurting 

methodology came from the real world, in dangerous circum-
them than they are at hurting other people. Maybe they 

stances. Street Fighting isn’t about form and grace, it’s about 
practice a martial art that redirects an opponent’s blows, or 

staying alive. These maneuvers may only be used unarmed, or 
are just very good at not being where their opponent wants 

with weapons capable of using the Brawl Skill, such as punch 
them to be.

daggers, or weapons concealed with the Shiv Merit (above).
Like a Book (•): Your character can read his opponents, 

Duck and Weave (•): Your character has been beaten all 
knowing where they’re likely to strike. When facing an un-

to hell more than a few times. Now she dodges on instinct, 
armed opponent and not Dodging, increase your character’s 

not on skill. You can reflexively take a one-die penalty to any 
Defense by half of his Brawl (round down). 

actions this turn to use the higher of her Wits or Dexterity 
Studied Style (••): Your character focuses on reading 

to calculate Defense. If you’ve already made a roll without 
one opponent, avoiding his attacks and frustrating him. 

penalty this turn, you cannot use Duck and Weave.
Attacks from that opponent do not reduce your character’s 

Knocking the Wind Out (••): Shots to the center mass 
Defense. If your character’s Defense reduces his opponent’s 

can shake an opponent, and your character knows this well. 
attack pool to zero, his further attacks against you lose the 

When your character makes a successful unarmed attack, the 
10-again quality.  

opponent suffers a -1 to his next roll.  
Redirect (•••): When your character is being attacked 

Kick ‘Em While They’re Down (•••): The best enemy 
by multiple opponents, he can direct their blows against one 

is one on the ground. Your character topples opponents, 
another. When he Dodges, if his Defense roll reduces an 

and keeps them down. Any time your successes on an attack 
attack’s successes to zero, his attacker rolls the same attack 

roll exceed an opponent’s Stamina, you may choose to ap-
against another attacker of your choice.

ply the Knocked Down Tilt (p. 285). Additionally, any time 
Drawback: Your character may only redirect one attack in 

your character is close enough to strike when an opponent 
a turn. He cannot redirect an attack against the same attacker.

attempts to get up from a prone position, she can reflexively 
Joint Strike (••••): Your character waits until the last 

cause two bashing damage. 
possible second, then lashes out at his opponent’s elbow or 

One-Two Punch (••••): Your character hits fast, and she 
wrist as he attacks, hoping to cripple his limbs. Roll Strength 

follows through with every hit. Whenever she makes a suc-
+ Brawl instead of Defense. If you score more successes than 

cessful attack, you can spend a point of Willpower to cause 
your attacker, you deal one point of bashing damage per extra 

two extra points of bashing damage. 
success, and inflict either the Arm Wrack or Leg Wrack Tilt 

Last-Ditch Effort (•••••): In a street fight, every second 
(your choice).

could mean the loss of your life. A proficient street fighter is 
Drawback: Spend a point of Willpower to use this 

a remarkable survivalist. She bites, headbutts, trips, or does 
maneuver.

whatever it takes to prevent that last hit. Any time a character 
Like the Breeze (•••••): Your characters steps to one 

with this level of Street Fighting is about to take a hit or get 
side as his opponent attacks, and gives her enough of a push 

overpowered when she’s already suffering wound penalties, 
to send her flying past him. When dodging, if your Defense 

she can reflexively spend a Willpower point and sacrifice her 
roll reduces an opponent’s attack successes to zero, you can 

Defense for the turn to make an attack against her would-be 
inflict the Knocked Down Tilt.

assailant. This can occur even if she’s already acted in a turn, 
Drawback: Declare that you’re using this maneuver at the 

so long as she’s not already spent Willpower. Resolve this 
start of the turn before taking any other attacks.

attack before the opponent’s action. 

65 
Fighting Merits






“Finish your dinner, or the Hangry Wolf will come for the leftovers.”
That was Grandma’s thing, growing up. The Hangry Wolf. I don’t know where she got it, 

some fucked-up book of Old World fairy tales, probably. The Hangry Wolf was supposed 
to live in the basement, and it didn’t have any food or toys or friends of its own, so it would 
come out at night to take whatever I had neglected. I guess it was supposed to teach me not to 
be wasteful, but all it really did was keep me up at night, convinced that every sound of the old 
building settling was the Hangry Wolf nosing around, looking for something to eat.

The window breaks with a muffled crack, and I’m in. Grandma wasn’t exactly loaded, but 
she had some jewelry she brought over with her after the war that should fix me for rent for 
a month or two. She probably left it all to Sira, but fuck her. Didn’t even call to tell me 
the old lady had died. Had to see it in the goddamn paper. Obits are a good way to find 
places to rob, but you’d expect your own family to give you a courtesy call.

It’s been ten years, but I still remember the layout. 
Grandma’s room at the end of the hall, mine next to the 
bathroom and across from Sira’s. I head for Grandma’s 
room, kick a stack of yellowing newspapers as high as my 
knee, nearly face-plant into a pile of musty, moth-eaten 
old scarves. When did it get this bad? Does the rest of 
the family know? Whatever. It’s not my problem. They 
made that clear a long time ago.

The bedroom’s even worse than the hall — Grandma was 
87, how’d she even get to bed? — but I find her jewelry 
box on the dresser, surrounded by photos. Photos of Sira, 
our parents, our cousins. What a surprise.

Jackpot! I start stuffing necklaces and brooches 
into my pockets. I’ll sort out the costume 
junk from the real stuff later. I’m debating 
mounting an expedition to the bathroom to 
check for prescription meds when the creak 
of the door freezes me like a mouse in a 
hawk’s shadow. Shit, Sira couldn’t be here 
already, could she?

No explosion of angry Armenian. 
Not Siranesh. Raspy, ragged breaths, 
like a ripped-open football. I don’t 
want to turn. I do anyways, and 
there he is. Mangy white fur, 
matted and filthy. Tongue lolling 
stupidly between cracked and 
yellow teeth, belly swollen in his 
famine. He holds out a hand, 
inviting, and like I’m in a 
dream, I take it.

The Hangry Wolf 
lived in the basement, 
and it didn’t have 
any food or toys 
or friends of its 
own. Now it has me.



Infernal Engines: 
Dramatic Systems

Chronicles of Darkness games straddle the line between telling collaborative 
stories and playing a game of chance and skill. This chapter lays out the basic game 
systems that glue the two together. Whenever a player decides that her character 
does something — like convince the prison guard to let her out, hurt the monster 
that’s about to devour her brother, or follow the trail of an eerily inconsistent 
story to discover the truth — a combination of the character’s decisions, the game 
systems, and the Storyteller’s rulings determines what happens next.

Game systems provide rules for situations where the outcome is uncertain, and 
it’s exciting to roll dice to see what befalls the characters and what their struggles 
accomplish. Players roll dice to see how well their characters succeed — or how 
miserably they fail — at overcoming obstacles and achieving their goals. Failure can 
be just as thrilling as success, and the systems that are explained here show how 
to make all of these possible outcomes work in a game. Books and films contain 
moments when the audience is on the edge of their seats, waiting to see whether 
the protagonists will survive or die, win or lose, save the world or watch it burn. A 
storytelling game makes those moments happen by applying systems to key parts 
of the story, and this chapter details how.

This chapter gives players and Storytellers everything they need to play through 
Fred nodded and said, most scenarios that crop up over the course of the chronicle, from fighting and 
“So what you’re saying seduction to solving crimes and modifying guns. An obstacle standing between 
is, if we all die, that’s a character and her goal might be a person or a monster she must talk to, escape 

not even the worst-case from, track down, or fight. It might also be a physical obstacle that needs smash-
scenario.” ing, a lack of a vital resource, or even her own inner demons and insecurities. 

The systems in this chapter use all the traits the player gave her character in the 
John replied, “I’d still previous chapter to present options for how the character can try to overcome 
like to shoot a little these obstacles and deal with whatever she encounters.
higher than that, Because the Chronicles of Darkness depict a world where even the most irrational 

Freddy.” of fears is justified and things that never should have been are real anyway, charac-

David Wong,  ters resort to all kinds of extremes to solve problems and get what they want. This 

John Dies at the End chapter presents an extensive system to adjudicate violence between characters, as 
well as systems that explore the emotional and mental consequences of seeing and 
doing strange, awful things. It also provides ways for characters to change and grow 
by earning Experiences, and ways their actions affect them and those around them 
with Conditions that guide roleplay. It covers many ways for characters to interact 
with the setting, including Social Maneuvering, investigation, building equipment, 
and heart-thumping chases. It even explains how Storytellers and players can work 
together to figure out how to adjudicate niche situations that aren’t included here.

Rolling Dice
When your character is trying to accomplish something and the outcome is in 

doubt, you roll a pool of ten-sided dice based on his relevant traits and read the 
results to determine success. Most of the time, you roll a number of dice equal to 
an Attribute plus a Skill. For example, to get the cop off your back, you use your 
character’s Manipulation Attribute of 4 and Subterfuge Skill of 3, so you roll seven 

68 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



dice. If you have a Specialty (p. 73) that’s relevant to the roll, Circumstance and Equipment
add an extra die to your pool.

Each die that shows an 8, 9, or 10 is a success. Normally, you Sometimes, fortune favors your character. Other times, 
only need one success to achieve your goal. It’s always better to she gives it a helping hand by packing the right tools for the 
get more successes, though, especially if you want to hurt some- job. The Storyteller should weigh how the circumstances 
one, since your successes add to your damage when attacking. affect a character’s chance of success. A slight advantage — 

Every die that comes up as a 10 is a success. You also picking an old and damaged lock — might be worth a bonus 
roll the die again, potentially scoring another success. If this die, while a stressful situation — trying to pick a lock while 
second roll comes up as another 10, count the success and people are shooting at you — might subtract three dice from 
roll it again, on until you roll a number other than 10. your pool. Most of the time, the modifier from circumstances 

Many rolls have modifiers, either from equipment, will be between +3 and –3, though in very rare cases — picking 
circumstance, or someone working against your character. a lock while the room is on fire — it can range from +5 to –5.
Most modifiers are within the range of +3 to -3, though they Bringing the right equipment for a task also gives you extra 
can range as low as -5 or as high as +5. Apply the modifiers dice to roll. A sharp suit might give you bonus dice when try-
to your dice pool before you roll. Add all the bonuses first, ing to convince the CEO that your character knows the best 
then apply penalties. plan, while a good pair of running shoes will help her escape 

If your pool drops below one die, you instead roll a single from the things lurking in the shadows. Most equipment of-
chance die. The chance die only counts as a success if you roll fers a one to three die bonus. A top-of-the-line or custom item 
a 10, which you do not reroll. Any other result is a failure. might give a four or five die bonus, but such items often cost 
If you roll a 1 on the chance die, your character suffers a more than just money. When a task is impossible without 
dramatic failure. some kind of equipment — hacking a computer, or driving 

a car — equipment bonuses indicate how far your tools are 
Roll Results above the baseline. A beat-up old station wagon might not 

Your roll can succeed and fail in a few different ways: add any dice to a Drive roll, but a top-of-the-line sports car 
Success: Your character’s action goes off as planned. may add four or even five dice.

Achieved by having at least one success (a die showing 8, 9, 
or 10; or a chance die showing 10).

Failure: Your character’s action fails. This doesn’t mean Attribute Tasks
“nothing happens,” just that she doesn’t get what she wants Some actions require no special expertise to perform. 
and complications are headed her way. Occurs when you Mostly, these come in the form of Wits + Composure rolls to 
roll no successes. notice something that doesn’t seem right, or using Strength + 

Exceptional Success: Your character’s action succeeds Stamina rolls to lift something. For these rolls, you add two 
beyond her expectations. Achieved by rolling five or more different Attributes together to make your dice pool. If an 
successes. Your character gains a beneficial Condition. (See action doesn’t seem to involve any particular Skill, it can be 
“Conditions,” p. 75.) Usually, the Inspired Condition is the handled by an Attribute Task. 
most appropriate. You can give this Condition to another 
character when it’s appropriate to the story. Muddling Through

Dramatic Failure: Your character fails badly, and things 
are about to get a whole lot worse. Suffered when you roll a 1 If your character has no dots in an applicable Skill, the 
on a chance die. Alternately you can take a Beat in exchange Storyteller may allow you to roll your Attribute as a dice 
for turning a normal failure into a dramatic failure. pool. Your character’s dice pool suffers a penalty for being 

untrained: if the roll would involve a Mental Skill, you take 

When to Roll Dice a three-die penalty, while a Physical or Social Skill applies a 
one-die penalty.

For many actions, you don’t need to roll dice. If your 
character isn’t in a stressful situation — nobody’s actively Actions
trying to tear his throat open, or demolish the building as he 
works — you don’t need to roll. When the dice hit the table, The majority of actions in the game are instant actions. 
the Storyteller should have some idea of what will happen They represent acts that only take a couple of seconds. In 
if the roll fails, as well as if it succeeds. Sometimes that’s combat, an instant action takes up your turn.
coded in the rules. If you fail on an attack roll, you don’t A reflexive action is the sort of thing you don’t even need 
deal any damage. Other times, it’s up to the Storyteller. If to think about doing. Most rolls to resist supernatural powers 
you fail a roll to jump between buildings with the prince’s are reflexive. You can take a reflexive action at any time, and 
hit-squad on your tail, do you make it but fall on the other it doesn’t take your turn in combat.
side, grab the next building by your fingertips, or plummet When two people fight over a specific goal, they engage in a 
to the alley below? contested action. You roll your dice pool and the Storyteller (or 

other player) rolls the dice pool for the other party. Whoever 
rolls the most successes is the victor. Note that you count the 

69 
Rolling Dice



total number of successes rolled when working out if you scored 
an exceptional success — don’t subtract the other party’s suc-
cesses from yours. A contested action takes up the action of Supernatural Tolerance  
the person initiating the action; resisting it is a reflexive action.

and Potency
Extended Actions As you venture beyond this book and into the 

An extended action is an attempt to complete a complex wider world of playable monsters, you’ll find that 
task. You roll your dice pool multiple times. Each roll takes a those monsters have traits that help them perpe-
certain amount of time, and represents a step in the process trate and resist supernatural effects.
— your character either makes significant progress or faces Supernatural Tolerance is a number added to pools 
a setback. You determine your dice pool for the action as to resist magical powers. Vampires use their Blood 
normal — Attribute + Skill + Modifiers. Make a note of your Potency, while werewolves use their Primal Urge.
Attribute + Skill + Specialty (if any); that’s the maximum Supernatural Potency is an overall measure of how 
number of times you can roll before the action fails. dangerous the monster is. It’s usually the same 

When you take an extended action, the Storyteller deter- trait as Supernatural Tolerance, but differs in a 
mines how many successes you require. Most actions require few places. For example, demons can sometimes 
between five and twenty successes. Five reflects a reasonable contest powers with their Cover, but their potency 
action that competent characters can achieve with the right is determined by their Primum.
tools and knowledge. Ten represents a difficult action that’s Don’t sweat this too much; each monster game 
still realistic for a professional in a field. Twenty represents a describes it in detail.
very difficult action that even a particularly skilled character 
will have trouble pulling off. 

The Storyteller also determines the interval between rolls. 
If an action would take weeks to complete, she might consider 

supernatural power that puts a victim in your thrall uses a 
one roll per week. If it’s likely to take a day’s work, one roll 

contested action, because the number of successes that you 
per hour makes for a solid timeframe.

roll doesn’t matter to the power.
Roll Results

Dramatic Failure: In addition to the effects of a failure, Contested Actions
the first roll on a further attempt suffers a 2-die penalty.

Failure: You face a setback. The Storyteller will offer you When two characters are competing, and you only need 
a choice: take a Condition of her choice or abandon the to know who comes out on top, use a contested action. In a 
action. You can offer a different Condition if you think it contested action, each player rolls a pool for their character 
makes sense. If you refuse or cannot agree on a Condition, (such as an Attribute + Skill pool), and the character for whom 
you lose all accumulated successes (see “Conditions,” p. 75). the most successes are rolled wins the contest.

Success: Add the successes scored on the roll to your 
running total. Work with the Storyteller to determine what Common Actions
steps your character has taken towards his goal. Here are some sample ways you can apply your Skills. 

Exceptional Success: Choose one of: Reduce the number Remember, you can invent your own at any time.
of successes required by your character’s Skill dots, reduce the 
time on each following roll by a quarter, or apply the excep-
tional success result of the action when you complete your goal. ARGUMENT 

(Intelligence + Expression – victim’s Resolve)
Resistance You try to sway someone with a rational argument. (If 

Sometimes, an action is resisted. You roll your Attribute arguing with a crowd, use the highest Resolve in the crowd.) 
+ Skill, but apply a modifier of one of your opponent’s resis- (See also Social Maneuvering, p.81.)
tance Attributes (Resolve, Stamina, or Composure), or your •	 Dramatic Failure: You convince them of quite the 
opponent’s Defense. This resistance is over and above any opposite.
other modifiers applied to the dice pool.

If you’re not sure whether to use resistance or a contested •	 Failure: They listen, but are ultimately unaffected.
action, use this guideline: Resistance applies in situations 
where the number of successes on the roll is an important •	 Success: They accept the truth (or apparent truth) of 
factor. If what matters is just whether the roll succeeds or not, your words.
use a contested action. For example, combat applies Defense 
as a resistance because the number of successes on the roll •	 Exceptional Success: They’re convinced, and become 
determines how badly the attacker messes up his victim. A a recruit to your point of view, though they might 

change their minds if they find themselves at risk.

70 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



CAROUSING INTIMIDATION 
(Presence + Socialize or Streetwise) (Strength or Manipulation +  

Intimidation – victim’s Composure)
You mix with a group, bringing high spirits with you and 

using them to loosen tongues. You try to get someone to do what you want by making 
•	 Dramatic Failure: A faux pas reveals that you don’t them afraid of you.

belong…and maybe even hints at your supernatural •	 Dramatic Failure: They don’t take you seriously, even 
nature. if you knock them around a bit. They won’t be doing 

what you want.
•	 Failure: You end up a wallflower, with a drink in your 

hand that you don’t even want. •	 Failure: They’re unimpressed with your threats.

•	 Success: You make a single-serving friend, who might •	 Success: They’re coerced into helping you.
be willing to pass secrets or go with you somewhere 
private. •	 Exceptional Success: They develop a lasting fear of 

you, which could make them easier to coerce in the 
•	 Exceptional Success: You make a friend you can future.

contact again.

INVESTIGATING A SCENE 
FAST-TALK (Intelligence + Investigation)

(Manipulation + Subterfuge  
– victim’s Composure) You look for clues to what’s happened in the recent past…

or tidy up so that no one else can find them.
You may not be able to win the argument with facts, but •	 Dramatic Failure: You find clues, but you contami-

you can try to get out of trouble with a little judicious spin. nate them, or you leave evidence of your presence.
•	 Dramatic Failure: The other party has a good idea 

what the truth is. •	 Failure: You find evidence, but it’s damaged and 
hard to interpret. Alternately, you miss a spot in your 

•	 Failure: The other party doesn’t believe you. cleanup that you won’t find out about until later.

•	 Success: The other party swallows your story. •	 Success: You find a clue of exactly the sort you need, 
or manage to significantly confuse future investigators.

•	 Exceptional Success: The other party believes you so 
thoroughly that they’re even willing to offer a little • Exceptional Success: You find a clue and know exactly 
aid…though they won’t put themselves at any kind how it fits in, or you leave the scene immaculate and 
of risk. impossible to decipher.

INTERROGATION JUMPING 
(Manipulation + Empathy or  (Strength + Athletics)

Intimidation – victim’s Resolve)
To get past an obstacle or get out of danger, you leap 

You try to dig secrets out of a reluctant informant. (See into the air.
also Social Maneuvering, p. 81.) • Dramatic Failure: The task not only fails but your 
•	 Dramatic Failure: The informant is so alienated or character loses her balance.

injured that he will no longer reveal information.
• Failure: Your character doesn’t achieve any significant 

•	 Failure: The informant blabs a mix of truth and false- distance at all — she jumps too early, has a false start, 
hood — even he may not know the difference. or loses her nerve.

•	 Success: You get the information you were looking • Success: Your character leaps a number of feet equal 
for. to the successes rolled, or a number of meters equal 

to the successes rolled divided by three.
•	 Exceptional Success: You get the information you were 

looking for, and the informant is willing to continue • Exceptional Success: Your character leaps an impressive 
cooperating. distance. If successes gained exceed the amount re-

quired to make the jump, your character may attempt 

71 
Rolling Dice



another instant action in the air (say, firing a shot) or 
upon landing (maybe running up to her Speed), at SNEAKING 
the Storyteller’s discretion. (Dexterity + Stealth vs. Wits + Composure)

You’re trying to avoid notice by someone…or multiple 
REPAIR someones. Maybe you want to get into a place undetected. 

(Intelligence + Crafts) Maybe you’re trying to break out.
• Dramatic Failure: You attract a lot of attention…

You try to fix something that’s broken down. enough that now it’s going to be hard to get out.
• Dramatic Failure: The broken object’s a lost cause. 

It’ll never work again. • Failure: You’re noticed, but still have the chance to 
slip away.

• Failure: You’re stymied by the problem, but could come 
back to it in another scene. • Success: You avoid notice and get closer to your goal.

• Success: You get the thing working…for now. • Exceptional Success: You avoid notice and get away 
before anyone has another chance to catch you.

• Exceptional Success: The object works better than 
before. It won’t break again any time soon. Permutations

The Storytelling System has a few variations in how dice 
RESEARCH rolls work.

(Intelligence + Academics or Occult) •	 9-Again: You reroll dice that show 9 or 10, as opposed 
to just 10. Keep rolling until you get a result that isn’t 

Using your existing knowledge, you look for information a 9 or 10.
on a current mystery.
• Dramatic Failure: You learn something, but it doesn’t •	 8-Again: You reroll dice that show 8, 9, or 10 — any 

help. In fact, it sets you back. If using Occult, this successful die — and keep rolling as long as your dice 
could mean dangerously false assumptions. show successes.

• Failure: You turn up a lot of promising leads, but •	 Extra Successes: Assuming your roll succeeds, you get 
they’re all dead ends. a number of extra successes added to your total. This 

permutation mostly applies to weapons, which add their 
• Success: You find the basic facts you were looking for. damage bonus as extra successes on your attack roll.

• Exceptional Success: You find what you were looking •	 Rote Actions: When you’ve got plenty of training and 
for, as well as leads toward a much bigger score of the steps you need to follow are laid out in front of 
information. you, you’ve got a significant chance of success. When 

you make a roll, you can reroll any dice that do not 

SHADOWING A MARK show an 8, 9, or 10. If you’re reduced to a chance die 
on a rote action, don’t reroll a dramatic failure. You 

(Wits + Stealth or Drive vs. Wits + Composure) may only reroll each die once.

You follow someone, perhaps in the hopes of ambushing •	 Successive Attempts: When you fail a roll, you may be 
them, or of finding out their destination. able to try again. If time is not an issue and your char-
• Dramatic Failure: You’re caught, either by the mark acter is under no pressure to perform, you may make 

or some observer that’s become suspicious of you. successive attempts with your full dice pool. In the far 
more likely situation that time is short and the situa-

• Failure: The mark senses he’s being followed, and tion is tense, each subsequent attempt has a cumulative 
manages to lose you. one-die penalty — so the third time a character tries to 

break down the door that’s keeping her inside a burn-
• Success: You follow the mark to his destination. ing building, her roll has a two- die penalty. Successive 

attempts do not apply to extended actions.
• Exceptional Success: You find some means by which 

you can continue following the mark, such as an un- •	 Teamwork: When two or more people work together, 
locked entrance into the building at which he arrived. one person takes the lead. He’s the primary actor, and his 

player assembles his dice pool as normal. Anyone assisting 
rolls the same pool before the primary actor. Each success 
from a secondary actor gives the primary actor a bonus 

72 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



die. If one of the secondary actors rolls a dramatic failure, character’s background and define her go-to solutions to prob-
the primary actor takes a four-die penalty. lems. For example, a character with Firearms 3 and a Specialty 

in Rifles is capable with all guns, but particularly good with 

Time rifles. She’ll default to a rifle when she can, because that’s 
what she does best. Players should come up with backstory 

When you’re playing out stories in the Chronicles of reasons for Specialties — perhaps the character used to hunt 
Darkness, time in the story can speed past or slow to a crawl with her grandfather as a youth.
compared to time in the real world. Weeks or months might Whenever a Specialty applies to a player’s roll with the 
pass in the space of a few words, while a tense negotiation relevant Skill, she adds one die, which stacks with other situ-
plays out in real time — or takes even longer. ational modifiers. Multiple Specialties may apply to a single 

In addition to years, nights, and hours, the Chronicles of roll with Storyteller approval. If a player goes to great lengths 
Darkness also uses five units of dramatic time. These build to justify a Specialty, it probably shouldn’t apply.
on one another, from shortest to longest.
•	 Turn — The smallest increment of time, a turn lasts for 

about three seconds. A character can perform a single Willpower
instant action in a turn. Turns normally only matter A character’s Willpower represents her determination and 
in combat or other dramatic and stressful situations. her ability to go above and beyond what should be possible 

to achieve her goals. Spending a point of Willpower adds 
•	 Scene — Much like a scene in a play, a scene in a role- a three-die bonus to most dice pools, or +2 to a Resistance 

playing game is the time spent dealing with a single, trait. You can only spend one point of Willpower per action.
specific event. The Storyteller frames the scene, de- A character regains one point of spent Willpower for each 
scribing what’s going on, and it’s up to the players to full night’s sleep she gets.
resolve the event or conflict. A scene might be played 
out in turns, progress in real time, or skip forward, 
depending on dramatic necessity. Anchors

•	 Chapter — A chapter is the collection of scenes that hap- When a character acts in accordance with his Virtue or 
pen during one game session. From the moment you sit Vice during a scene, his sense of self is reinforced and his 
down and start playing to the point where you pack up reserves of inner strength refreshed. 
your dice, you’re playing out a chapter of your story. If the Storyteller judges that your character’s actions dur-

ing a scene reflect his Vice, he regains one spent Willpower 
•	 Story — A story tells an entire tale, following the 

point. Note that acting on a Virtue or Vice does not need to 
dramatic arc of a related series of events. It might be 

pose difficulty or risk to your character.
comprised of several chapters or be completed in just 

If the Storyteller judges that your character’s actions dur-
one. It has an introduction, rising tension, a number of 

ing a scene reflected her Virtue while posing her difficulty 
twists, and a climax that brings things to a conclusion.

or risk, she regains all spent Willpower. She may regain 
•	 Chronicle — The big picture; a chronicle is the collec- Willpower up to twice per game session in this way.

tion of interlinked stories that involve your characters. 
They might be linked by a common theme or overarch-
ing plotline, or they may only share characters and Integrity
locations. As your story progresses, the players and Human characters encountering the supernatural suf-
Storyteller work together to create an ongoing chronicle. fer great strains to their composure, as well as to their very 

psyches. The measure of a person’s self-image, her psyche, 

Skill Specialties and her soul’s health is called Integrity. 

While Skills describe a character’s broad knowledge and Breaking Points 
training, Skill Specialties describe particular areas of exper- A character stands to lose Integrity when she experiences 
tise. A Specialty should be narrower than its Skill, but not a breaking point. If the action would cause a character psy-
so narrow that it’s usually irrelevant. Each Skill in Chapter 1 chological stress, it’s worth considering whether the action 
lists a few example Specialties as a guideline. The Storyteller constitutes a breaking point. Note, too, that the character may 
is the ultimate arbiter of what constitutes a Specialty. experience breaking points that do not stem from his own 

Characters begin play with three Specialties, and players actions. Witnessing the gruesome realities of the Chronicles 
can purchase more with Experiences. A character may have of Darkness, supernatural or otherwise, can do it, too.
any number of Specialties for a given Skill, but only one When a character performs certain actions or endures 
instance of each Specialty. Specialties can help flesh out the certain experiences, he might reach a breaking point. A 

73 
Integrity



breaking point simply means that what a character has done be customized. Modifiers are cumulative, but the total modifier 
or seen has outstripped his ability to rationalize or handle it. from circumstances should not exceed +/– five dice.

A breaking point can fall into one of the following 
categories:
•	 The character performs an action that either violates Breaking Point Modifiers

his personal moral code or that is considered unac-
ceptable in society. Breaking Point Modifier

Character is protecting himself +1
•	 The character witnesses something traumatic, terrify-

ing, or that rattles his understanding of the world. Character is acting in accordance +1
with his Virtue

•	 The character is the victim of a supernatural attack, Character is protecting a loved one +2
whether physical, emotional, or mental. Character is acting in accordance –1

Breaking points are somewhat subjective, obviously. A with his Vice
homicide detective with 30 years of experience seeing dead Witnessing the supernatural –1
bodies and hearing confessions of killers has a somewhat higher (nonviolent)
tolerance for human depravity than a sheltered 20-something 
in a middle-class liberal arts college. During character creation, Witnessing the supernatural (violent) –2
it is advisable for the Storyteller to come up with several hypo- Witnessing an accidental death –2
thetical situations so that the player can determine if, in her Witnessing a murder –3
judgment, those situations would be breaking points. 

Note that a breaking point is not necessarily something Committing premeditated murder –5
that the character considers wrong. A character might kill Killing in self-defense –4
someone in a clear-cut, unambiguous case of self-defense, but Killing by accident (car wreck, e.g.) –4
the experience is probably still a breaking point, even if the 
player (and the character) feels the act was entirely justified. Causing visible serious injury to a –2
Actions take a toll on the psyche, regardless of whether the person
actions were righteous. Torture –3

Determining a Breaking Point Enduring physical torture –2
Enduring mental/emotional super- –2

The Storyteller should determine whether a given action natural attack
or occurrence counts as a breaking point for a character. If 
the character is player-controlled, then obviously the player Enduring physical supernatural –2
should have some input into this process attack

Witnessing a supernatural –1 to –5, 
System occurrence depending 

on severity
When a character experiences a breaking point, the player 

or Storyteller rolls Resolve + Composure with a modifier Roll Results
based on the character’s Integrity rating: Dramatic Failure: The character’s worldview has been 

damaged, perhaps beyond repair. The character suffers from 
Current Rating Modifiers traumatic stress. Lose a dot of Integrity and choose from the 

following Conditions (or create a new one with Storyteller 
Integrity Modifier approval): Broken, Fugue, or Madness. Also, take a Beat.
8–10 +2 Failure: The character’s worldview has been shaken and he 

probably questions his sense of self, his ability to relate to people, 
7–6 +1 his own moral worth, or his sanity. Lose a dot of Integrity and 
5–4 0 choose one of the following Conditions (or create a new one 
3–2 -1 with Storyteller approval): Guilty, Shaken, or Spooked.

Success: The character has come through the break-
1–2 -2 ing point intact. He might feel guilty or upset about what 

happened, but he can cope. Choose one of the following 
The Storyteller can also impose modifiers based on how hei- Conditions (or create a new one with Storyteller approval): 

nous the breaking point is, relative to the character’s experience. Guilty, Shaken, or Spooked.
The chart below gives some suggestions, but again, the Storyteller Exceptional Success: The character somehow manages to 
and the player are encouraged to develop the character’s moral not only survive the breaking point but to also find meaning 
framework and life experience to the point that modifiers can in it, to reaffirm his own self-worth, or to pass through fire 

74 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



and be tempered by it. The character takes a Beat 
and regains a point of Willpower.

Meditation
A character can improve her chances of resisting 

a breaking point by meditating. Meditation is an 
extended action with a pool of Composure + Wits, 
target successes of 4, and an interval of 30 minutes. 
After successfully meditating, the character gets a 
+1 bonus to her next breaking point roll. Once this 
bonus is used or the character sleeps, it disappears, 
and must be regained by meditating again.

Soothing music or relaxation tapes can provide a 
+1 to +2 equipment bonus. A dedicated meditation 
room, perhaps in the character’s Safe Place, provides 
+3. Loud noises, an uncomfortable environment, or 
lack of sleep inflict a -1 penalty each. Lack of food 
inflicts a -1 to -3 penalty. 

Conditions
Conditions represent ways in which the story has 

affected a character, and what he can do to move past 
those events. Players don’t buy Conditions. Instead, 
events in the game apply them and they remain until 
certain resolution criteria are met. A character can only 
have one instance of a particular Condition unless 
each applies to a distinctly different circumstance — for 
example, he may be Informed about both the occult 
symbol he stayed up all night to research and the inner 
workings of the corporation he infiltrated. He’d resolve 
each independently.

Characters can gain Conditions as a result of 
many events or circumstances. A player can choose 
to bring a relevant Condition into play whenever he 
rolls an exceptional success. Breaking points (see p. 
73) can also cause Conditions as the character deals 
with the ravages of a harsh and terrifying world. 
Spirit Numina, vampiric Disciplines, and other 
supernatural powers can inflict Conditions on their 
unfortunate victims. Finally, the Storyteller can bring 
a Condition into play whenever it would heighten 
the drama of the story, or when it would make sense 
as the result of a character’s actions.

A list of sample Conditions can be found on 
p. 288. The listed resolutions for each Condition 
are the most common ways to end its effects; other 
actions may also resolve it if they would reasonably 
cause the Condition’s effects to end. Players should 
work with the Storyteller to determine Condition 
resolution. When a character resolves a Condition, 
the player takes a Beat. However, if a Condition has 
a natural time limit and then fades away, he doesn’t 
take a Beat — just waiting the Condition out isn’t 
enough to resolve it.

75 
Conditions



a Condition that resolves when the character deals lethal 
damage to someone clearly reflects the violent nature of that 

Conditions and  story point. Resolution criteria also serve as an opportunity 
for daisy chains of Beat-generating events, such as allowing 

Storyteller Characters exceptional success on three successes instead of five, or re-
In most cases, a Storyteller character doesn’t need solving a Condition on a failed roll to encourage the player 
to gain Conditions, since the Storyteller doesn’t earn to choose dramatic failure (and thus earn two Beats at once).
Beats. She can simply roleplay the appropriate be- It’s best to keep the resolution criteria for a new Condition 
havior or apply an appropriate situational modifier somewhat general, rather than requiring one specific action. 
if circumstances demand it. However, a Storyteller For example, a Condition that resolves when the player 
character can gain Conditions occasionally, such as commits any act of vengeance allows the player flexibility in 
when a player character uses a supernatural power exactly what actions the character takes, while a Condition 
that inflicts one. If a Storyteller character resolves a that resolves when the character kills a particular person 
Condition, she earns a point of Willpower for use in 
the same scene, instead of a Beat. restricts the player’s options. More options are usually better.

Breaking points and exceptional successes are the most 
common opportunities for creating new Conditions. When 
none of the given example Conditions seem to apply, or the 
player has an idea for a different way the momentous event 

Some Conditions are marked as Persistent. These has affected her character, feel free to invent a Condition. 
Conditions typically last for a long time, and can only be The Storyteller can also invent Conditions whenever she 
resolved permanently with a specific and impressive effort. wants to offer Beats for roleplaying significant behavioral 
Once per chapter, a player can gain a Beat when a Persistent or situational shifts, or for some mechanical effect that she 
Condition impacts his character’s life. wants to impose, such as a lingering penalty.

Lingering Conditions If play would bog down in the search for the right 
Condition, the Storyteller should just improvise one and 

Conditions are designed as reminders that events that keep the session going.
happened earlier in the story have repercussions later. 
Usually, Chekhov’s gun applies — if you put the Condition 
on stage, it should cause some drama by the end. However, Experience
Storytelling games are slippery things, and sometimes it’s A player earns Beats for his character in many ways (listed 
better to drop a story thread represented by a Condition for below). When your character has gained five Beats, they 
the sake of the ongoing narrative. convert to one Experience, which can be used to develop 

For example, an emotional state like Swooned might no your character’s abilities.
longer be relevant to events in the game because a long time 
has passed, or it might have been the result of a conflict with a 
character the players don’t care about anymore. In those cases, Beats
it’s perfectly fine to just cross off the Condition. The Storyteller You gain Beats when your character fulfills one of the 
may choose to award a Beat as if the character resolved it. criteria below.

Improvised Conditions •	 If your character fulfills an Aspiration, take a Beat. At 
the end of the game session, replace the Aspiration. 

Storytellers shouldn’t feel limited by the list of Conditions •	 Each Condition has criteria for resolution. When 
in the Appendix (p. 288). As a rough guideline, a Condition resolving a Condition, take a Beat. 
typically consists of a modifier between +2 and -2 dice to a 
certain type of action, or to any action taken with a certain •	 Some Conditions provide Beats for actions other than 
motivation. Conditions can also consist solely of roleplayed resolution.
effects until resolution, such as the Shaken Condition (p. 
290), in which the mechanical effect is the resolution. •	 Any time you fail a roll, you may opt to make it a 

A Condition is resolved when the character does dramatic failure and take a Beat. 
something significant to act on it, or when she addresses 
the original source. The sample Conditions in this book •	 If your character takes damage in one of her three 
give examples of how to resolve them, but players can also rightmost Health boxes, take a Beat. 
resolve them after other events with Storyteller approval if it •	 At the end of any game session, take a Beat. 
makes sense in the story. Resolution criteria for improvised 
Conditions offer a way for the Storyteller to encourage certain •	 Any time your character risks a breaking point (p. 73), 
kinds of dramatic action, especially when she wants a story take a beat. 
point to have lingering effects on the characters. For instance, 

76 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



the investigation is a means to an end. Maybe the players’ 
characters need to stop a monster menacing the community. 

Experience Costs Maybe they’re trying to uncover a mystical cure to a family 
member’s terminal illness. Even when the desired result 

Spend the following amounts of Experiences to 
improve your character. is simply uncovering the truth, Clues help the characters 

establish and qualify the truth, which may mean the differ-
Attribute: 4 Experiences per dot ence between being locked away for claiming the fantastical, 
Merit: 1 Experience per dot and having hard data which can save lives and change fates.

Skill Specialty: 1 Experience Two Essential  
Skill: 2 Experiences per dot
Integrity: 2 Experiences per dot Rules of Investigation 

These two rules are important for maintaining the integ-
rity of investigations in your chronicle. 

No Hard Answers
Investigation Don’t settle on hard answers up front. As Storyteller, 

don’t devote too much energy to coming up with all the po-
The Chronicles of Darkness are tales of mystery, and pro- tential Clues and answers ahead of time. This could put you 

tagonists are driven to uncover them. For a casual, momentary in a position where you’re railroading the players, and forcing 
investigation that shouldn’t play a deep role in the story, you them to go along with your plans. Or worse, they could get 
can use a single dice roll to represent the effort. However, in- frustrated as the puzzle pieces aren’t coming together in a way 
vestigations can become the foundation for extended scenes, they expect. Improvisation is your best tool in investigation. 
for stories, and even for entire chronicles. This system allows Let the players have some say in the Clues they establish, 
for more depth than the standard dice mechanics. and work with them to bring together the results in a way 

At its core, this system is about uncovering and accumu- that makes sense for everyone. This will give them an invest-
lating Clues, which serve to benefit later actions. Usually, ment in the story, and will take some responsibility off your 

77 
Investigation



shoulders. It will also help to cater the story to their specific 
interests and biases. When they succeed, ask them, “What do 
you find?” and let their answers inform the direction of your Investigation  
story. If you have a culprit in mind, that’s fine. However, let 
the players help guide the path to that culprit if at all possible. Quick Reference
No Binary Rolls •	 Step One: Decide the Scope of the 

Investigation
If your chronicle’s integrity or pacing would be negatively •	 Step Two: Determine the Potential Clue

impacted by a failure, don’t let that failure act as binary 
stakes in an investigation. In popular fiction, particularly the •	 Step Three: Establish Interval
kind the Chronicles of Darkness emulate, the protagonists •	 Step Four: Create the Dice Pool 
will generally end up figuring out the mystery. This doesn’t •	 Step Five: Uncover the Clue 
intuitively map to the success/failure nature of Storytelling 
system dice rolls. Play with stakes. Maybe failure at a given 
stage means the protagonists still find their Clue, but the 
antagonist realizes he’s being pursued. Maybe finding that 
Clue takes longer than expected, so the culprit can get away they may help in the court room when seeking conviction. 
with another stage of his plan. A good investigation story They could even offer valuable insights which could protect 
needs to maintain momentum, lest it become frustrating. potential victims from the perpetrator. Once fully expended, 

In this system, Clues offer dice advantages for later rolls. a Clue cannot offer its benefits again. 
Failure doesn’t inherently mean the Clue isn’t uncovered; it If the characters aren’t looking to solve a centralized puzzle 
just means it can’t offer a dice benefit later. It’s up to you to with Clues, they can be stockpiled and used at other times. 
determine just why that is. Is the evidence tainted? Is there For example, players may use these investigation rules in order 
a mitigating twist? to dig up blackmail material; each item of blackmail material 

would count as one specific Clue, and its elements could be 
Frame the Action used as Leverage in a Social Maneuver (see p. 81). Clues can 

go above the normal +5 limit on dice bonuses; they’re limited 
Unlike most actions in the Chronicles of Darkness, this only by the character’s Investigation Skill.

style of extended investigation assumes the characters do a Clues are best represented visually at your table. Index 
myriad of things across the course of the effort. It should cards are a good place to start, with ticks or glass beads to 
never just be a series of rolls; you always want to give as represent the available elements on each. This way, players 
much context as possible between each step, with each Clue. can see what their characters have to draw from. They can 
This is more than just explaining Clues; you want to space also be handed from character to character. 
out the events with action scenes, social scenes, and events 
that further the plot and maintain momentum. This serves 
two main purposes. First, it mixes up the action and offers Relevant Traits 
variety. Second, it builds a sense of stakes. If the world turns In an investigation, characters may use a variety of game 
while the investigation proceeds, then real things happen and traits, Attributes, Skills, Merits, and otherwise. This is 
time is of the essence. Sure, the characters might get closer particularly important to note, because while characters all 
to the murderer if they push the investigation forward. But possess an Investigation Skill, many different character types 
what about the cultists threatening to tear into the fabric of can benefit an investigation without actually being investiga-
reality? A Storytelling game is about choice, and this gives tors. For example, lab technicians might assist in uncovering 
your players choices of what to engage. Clues with Science or Medicine without even a single dot 

of the Investigation Skill, and those Clues are very valuable 
What is a Clue? when handed off to a principle investigator. 

Having a number of specialists with a variety of Skills can 
Clues, in the scope of these rules, are a specialized type make for a potent series of Clues, with numerous elements 

of equipment (see p. 100). However, the existence of a Clue of which to take advantage. 
isn’t always tied to an actual object with which a character 
can interact. Sometimes, a Clue is an important fact, or even Investigation
a series of well-connected dots. Clues are different from most 
equipment in that their advantages are resources which can Investigation is still an integral Skill in investigation ef-
be expended. These resources, called elements, can be used forts. It allows characters to tie Clues together, and to utilize 
for anything pertaining to that Clue or the investigation at them practically. Characters may only draw from one Clue 
large. They may help a principle investigator pursue a culprit; in a given action by default, or one Clue for each dot of 

Investigation she possesses. 

78 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



Step One: Decide the You can use out-of-character designations if you want 
to string an investigation out over an extended period. For 

Scope of the Investigation example, you may allow for one Clue per game session. This 
would support a “season arc” like in popular television shows. 

First off, you need to determine the full scope of the Every “episode” the characters can get a little closer to the 
investigation. What are the characters ultimately looking final reveal. If the characters uncover the truth faster than 
for? What’s their end game? This will often take multiple expected, that gives you more time at the end of the arc to 
Clues before it becomes viable. For most stories, one to explore the ramifications and implications of the truth. If 
five Clues should be sufficient, where five Clues indicates they’re moving quickly, you can offer side stories and personal 
a consuming task. If you want the investigation to be the exploration stories.
thrust of an extended chronicle, the target number should 
be at least half the number of planned chapters to allow for 
deviation in the plot, or up to twice the total number in a Step Four:  
highly-focused chronicle. Create Dice Pool

Once characters reach the required number of Clues, 
they’re able to Uncover the Truth if that’s their goal. They By now, you should have an idea of what the character is 
can do so without any additional rolls if they spend a number doing to establish the Clue. This could mean research, foren-
of Clue elements (divided however they like) equal to the sics work, interviewing witnesses, or any other action pertain-
required Clues for the investigation. See below for more on ing to the investigation. Establish a dice pool pertaining to 
Uncovering the Truth. that action. Allow the player some input here; there’s a good 

chance she has a dice pool in mind already when determining 

Step Two: Determine the her character’s action. Look to the suggested modifiers for 
some examples of what might modify this dice pool. 

Potential Clue
Once the characters go digging for Clues, you have to Step Five:  

determine what they find and what it means. Ask some simple Uncover the Clue
questions of the player. “Where is she searching?” “What does 
she hope to uncover here?” “How does she think he did it?” With the roll, the character uncovers the Clue. 
Those are just some basic examples. Pay close attention to 
the context, and ask questions based on that. Consider what Uncovering the Clue
matters, what the character already knows, and what she The dice pool depends on how the characters approach 
values. Let the player’s answers guide the search for a Clue. the pursuit. Each time the same Skill is used to uncover 

Clues in an investigation, the dice pool suffers a cumula-
Step Three:  tive -1 penalty. A diverse, holistic approach always helps in 

Establish Interval investigations. Continuing with the same approach offers 
diminishing returns.

Next, you have to determine how long the search takes. Dice Pool: Special 
This is governed in part by context, and in part by the needs Action: Instant
of your story. Searching for a Clue is technically an instant Dramatic Failure: In addition to imposing a negative 
action, but can take a span of time. If the end result of an Condition at the Storyteller’s discretion, one Clue from the 
investigation is the focus of an extended chronicle, you might investigation gets the Tainted tag.  
want the players to stretch out their efforts, for example. If Failure: The character finds a Clue, but it gets the 
the character is casing a room from which a monster fled, Incomplete tag. 
it might only take a few minutes. If she’s diving to a sunken Success: The character has uncovered a Clue. It gets a base 
ship to find a specific chipped goblet owned by the monster, element, plus any additional elements as needed (see below).
that could take an hour or more. Exceptional Success: Not only does the character uncover 

Don’t be afraid to add story framing to the search for a Clue with an extra element, she creates a Condition to 
a Clue. In our previous examples, maybe the monster left benefit the search. Common examples include Informed 
behind a dangerous contaminant the characters have to (see p. 289) or Inspired (see p. 289). Don’t be limited to 
overcome to case the scene. Or for our wrecked ship, perhaps those, though.
the characters have to traverse shark-infested waters to get Suggested Modifiers: Crime scene over a day old (-1), over 
where they need to be. If the characters perform particularly a week old (-3), over a year old (-5), tenacious questioning 
well in these efforts, consider offering bonuses to the effort (+1), thorough canvassing (+2), personal grudge (-2), relevant 
to find the Clue. superstitions (+ or – 1 to 3), too emotionally invested (-2), 

unrestricted access to the scene (+2), someone tampered with 

79 
Investigation



evidence (-1 to -5), crime aligns with investigator’s 
Virtue (+1), crime aligns with investigator’s Vice 
(-2), lone investigator (-1), rushed for time (-1 to -3)

Clue Elements 
Most Clues start with a single element. Clues 

established with an exceptional success gain an ad-
ditional element. Clues established by specialists 
gain an additional element. In this case, special-
ists are characters who have 4 or more dots in 
the relevant Skill, or a Specialty directly relating 
to the Clue. A character may only contribute a 
given Skill or its Specialties one time in a given 
investigation for this purpose. Some Merits or 
other variables can influence the number of ele-
ments a Clue receives. 

Elements can be spent for +1 to a relevant 
dice pool, or as part of the effort to solve the in-
vestigation. A character can only spend elements 
from one Clue at a time, or Clues equal to her 
Investigation dots. She may spend any number 
of elements from a Clue, however. 

Clue Tags 
Clues can be tagged, like equipment. These 

tags influence how the Clue is used. If you’re us-
ing index cards or other visual markers for Clues, 
be sure to note any relevant tags. Here are some 
examples from the Uncovering Clues mechanics:

Incomplete
Incomplete Clues are useful, but not quite as 

much as others. Their elements may only be used 
to grant dice to other rolls to uncover Clues. They 
may not add to other rolls or be used as part of 
an effort to solve the final investigation. 

Tainted
Your character has evidence that supports 

a strong narrative, but that evidence features 
reasonable doubt or potential holes. If a char-
acter has access to a Tainted Clue, ignore the 
first success on any actions pertaining to the 
investigation. Your character may have multiple 
instances of this penalty; additional instances are 
cumulative. For example, with three instances 
of Tainted, you must roll four or more successes 
to succeed, or eight to succeed exceptionally. 
Any time an element from this Clue applies, 
it applies a -2 penalty instead of the normal +1 
bonus. The element is removed from the clue 
as usual. This reflects the need to work out the 
Tainted Clue fully before it no longer hurts the 
investigation.

80 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



Uncovering the Truth Goals
Once characters have the requisite Clues, they may When using a Social action with this system, the first 

Uncover the Truth. So long as they have the required number step is to declare your character’s intended goal. This is as 
of Clues, this doesn’t require a roll; they have pieced together simple as stating what you want the subject to do, and how 
the puzzle. However, for every Clue short of the required your character is going about making it happen. You need 
total, the Storyteller adds one significant complication to the only announce the initial stages, as the effort will likely occur 
investigation. Some example complications are: over multiple rolls, reflecting different actions.
•	 The culprit has plausible deniability. At this point, the Storyteller determines whether the goal 

is reasonable. A character might, with time and proper tactics, 
•	 The culprit has a viable escape plan. convince a rich person to give him a large sum of money. He 

probably isn’t going to convince the wealthy individual to 
•	 The culprit has a hostage. abandon all of his wealth to the character (though it might 

be possible to get him to name the character as his heir, at 
•	 The characters risk legal consequences if they pursue which point the character can set about speeding up the 

the culprit. inheritance process).
•	 The characters risk professional or personal conse-

quences if they pursue the culprit. Doors
•	 The crime in question was a smokescreen for a greater Once you’ve declared your character’s goal, the next step 

conspiracy.    is to determine the scope of the challenge. We represent this 
with “Doors,” which reflect a character’s resistance to coer-

If possible, use input that came from the players dur- cion, her social walls, skepticism, mistrust, or just a hesitance 
ing the investigation to determine the results. This doesn’t toward intimacy. It’s abstract, and means different things in 
necessarily mean they get to determine the culprit, but they every given case. 
should be able to influence the finer details. After all, if they The base number of Doors is equal to the lower of the 
made hypotheses and assumptions during the investigation, character’s Resolve or Composure. If the goal would be a 
and their efforts were successful, that should mean most of breaking point for the character, add two Doors. If accom-
their theories rang true. plishing the goal would prevent a character from resolving 

an Aspiration, add a Door. Acting in opposition to a Virtue 

Social Maneuvering also adds a Door. Doors may increase as the effort continues 
and the circumstances change. For example, if the goal seems 

Social maneuvering is a system for applying persuasion mundane at first but the situation makes it reprehensible, that 
and social pressure over time. Social actions within this system may increase the number of Doors. If your character gives up 
may be direct or subtle, complex or simple. For example, your on the goal and shifts to another, any Doors currently open 
character may shout at another and demand he gets out of remain so, but assess Aspirations, Virtues, and Integrity in 
the way, or your character may subtly offer clues suggesting case of a potential increase. 
someone needs to vote for her. Doors must be opened one by one. Each successful roll — 

It is not always possible to get someone to do what you not each success — opens one. Exceptional successes open two. 
want. For instance, no amount of social maneuvering is going Also, Doors are specifically a one-way relationship between 
to convince the chief of police in a large city to hold a press two characters. They may each have Doors to one another, 
conference and admit to murder, even if the player has a dice or Doors to other characters. 
pool impressive enough to make it happen. This system is 
designed to allow characters to manipulate or convince other First Impressions
characters to perform favors or undertake actions, but it First (and later) impressions determine the time required 
does raise the question: Is one character dictating another’s between rolls. The Storyteller sets the first impression based 
actions, and how much of that should be allowed in a roleplay- on any past history between the characters, the circumstances 
ing game? Or, put a different way, can one character seduce of their meeting, the nature of the favor being asked (if the 
another with this system? acting character is asking right up front — sometimes it’s a 

Under a strict read of the rules, yes. The goal is “get that better idea not to lead off with what you want), and any other 
character to sleep with my character,” the number of Doors relevant factors. 
is decided as explained below, and impressions and other “Average impressions” call for weekly rolls, which makes 
factors play into the final result. This is not too different the process very slow. Through play, your character may 
from how seduction and other, less carnal, forms of persua- influence the interaction for a “good impression.” This may 
sion actually work — the persuader tries to make the offer as mean meeting in a pleasant environment, wearing appealing 
enticing as possible. clothing, playing appropriate music, or otherwise making 

81 
Social Maneuvering



the situation more comfortable. This should not require a a character stand up to threats, or Presence to protect and 
roll during a first impression, but requires one if attempted maintain one’s reputation at a soiree. 
later. An excellent impression requires a roll to influence Failed rolls impose a cumulative -1 penalty on further 
the situation. For example, you may use a Wits + Socialize to rolls. These penalties do not go away after successful rolls. 
find the right people to invite to a party. Perfect impressions When the player fails a roll, the Storyteller may choose to 
require further factors. It may involve leverage, or playing to worsen the impression level by one. If she does so, the player 
a character’s Vice (see below). takes a Beat. If this takes the impression level to hostile, the 

Hostile impressions come from tense first impressions, attempt cannot move forward until it improves.
or threatening pitches. These interactions require you ma-
nipulate the impression, or to force the Doors (see below). Aspirations
Vices Aspirations are quick routes to influence. Find out a 

character’s goals, wants, and needs, and they can help move 
If your character knows her subject’s Vice, she can use interactions forward. If your character presents a clear path 

it to influence the interaction. When presenting an offer and reasoning for how they’ll help a character achieve an 
that tempts that Vice, move the interaction one step up on Aspiration, remove a Door. 
the chart. As a rule of thumb, if by agreeing to the tempta- This doesn’t require follow through, but it does require a 
tion the target character stands to gain Willpower, then the certain amount of assurance. If the opportunity presents it-
temptation is a valid form of influence. self, and your character pulls out of an offer, two Doors close.

Soft Leverage (Gifts and Bribes) Failure
Soft Leverage represents offers of services or payments in A social maneuvering attempt can fail utterly under the 

order to lubricate social interaction. Make the offer. If the following circumstances: 
recipient agrees, move the impression up once on the chart. •	 The player rolls a dramatic failure on an attempt to 

Mechanically, this can be represented by certain Merit open a Door (the player takes a Beat as usual). 
dots. For example, a bribe may be represented by a Resources 
3 offer, or an offer for a particular service may be reflected •	 The target realizes he is being lied to or manipulated. 
by  Retainer 3. By default, these bribes give the recipient use This does not apply if the target is aware that the 
of the Merit for a designated amount of time. character is trying to talk him into something, only if 

the target feels betrayed or conned.
Impressions

•	 The impression level reaches hostile, and remains so 
Impression Time Per Roll for a week of game time. The character can try again 
Perfect One Turn during the next story.

Excellent One Hour
Good One Day Resolution
Average One Week Once your character opens the final Door, the subject 

must act. Storyteller characters abide by the intended goal, 
Hostile Cannot roll and follow through as stated. 

If you allow players’ characters to be the targets of social 

Opening Doors maneuvering, resolve this stage as a negotiation with two pos-
sible outcomes. The subject chooses to abide by the desired 

At each interval, you may make a roll to open Doors goal, or offer a beneficial alternative.  
to move closer to your character’s goal. The roll might be 
different each time, depending on the character’s tactics. Go With the Flow
Some of the rolls might not even be Social. For example, 
if your character is trying to win someone’s favor, fixing If the character does as requested, and abides by the 

his computer with an Intelligence + Computer roll could intended goal, his player takes a Beat (see p. 76). 

open a Door. 
As Storyteller, be creative in selecting dice pools. Change Offer an Alternative

them up with each step to keep the interactions dynamic. If the subject’s player chooses, he may offer a beneficial 
Similarly, consider contested and resisted rolls. Most resisted alternative, and the initiator’s player can impose a Condition 
actions or contested rolls use either Resolve or Composure, (see p. 75) on his character. This offer exists between play-
or a combination of the two. But don’t let that stand as a ers, it does not need to occur within the fiction of the game 
limit. Contested rolls don’t require a resistance trait. For (though it can). The alternative must be beneficial, and not 
example, Wits might be used to notice a lie, Strength to help a twist of intent. The Storyteller adjudicates. 

82 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



The initiator’s player chooses a Condition to impose on two Doors open, and Erickson offers to let Stacy borrow the 
the subject. It must make sense within the context of the book for a weekend. He probably even thinks it was his idea.
scenario. On the other hand, if Erickson is a player-controlled 

character, his player might decide he really doesn’t want 

Example of  to let that book out of his sight. He might offer an alterna-
tive — he’ll bring the book to Stacy, and let her use it for an 

Social Maneuvering afternoon. That, of course, might complicate her intended 
demon summoning, but she does get to put the Flattered 

Stacy wants Professor Erikson to loan her a book from Condition on Erickson.
his private library. She intends to use the book’s contents to 
summon a demon, but Erickson doesn’t know that. Erickson 
is protective of his books, but he’d be willing to loan one out Forcing Doors
under the right circumstances. Erickson has Resolve 3 and Sometimes, waiting and subtlety just aren’t warranted, 
Composure 4, so the base number of Doors Stacy needs to desired, or possible. In these cases, your character can at-
open is 3 (the lower of the two). Loaning a book wouldn’t be tempt to force a character’s Doors. This degree of urgency is 
a breaking point, nor does it prevent him from achieving an high-risk, high-reward. Forcing Doors often leads to burnt 
Aspiration, but it does work against his Virtue (Cautious), bridges and missed opportunities. 
so the total number of Doors Stacy needs to open to get the When forcing Doors, state your character’s goal and her 
book is 4. approach, then roll immediately. The current number of 

The Storyteller decides that the first impression is aver- Doors apply as a penalty to the dice roll. The subject contests 
age; the two know one another (Stacy is a former student as normal. If successful, proceed to resolution as normal. If 
of Erickson’s), but they aren’t close. Stacy arranges to find the roll fails, the subject is immune to further efforts at social 
Erickson at a conference and impresses him with her knowl- maneuvering from your character.
edge of esoteric funerary rites. This requires an Intelligence 
+ Occult roll, plus whatever effort Stacy had to put forth to Hard Leverage
get into the conference, but changes the impression level to 
“good.” Now, Stacy can make one attempt to open Doors Hard Leverage represents threats, drugging, intimidation, 
per day. At the conference, Stacy’s player rolls Manipulation blackmail, kidnapping, or other heavy-handed forms of co-
+ Persuasion and succeeds; one Door opens. Stacy mentions ercion. It drives home the urgency required to force open a 
the book to Erickson and lets him know she’d like to borrow character’s Doors. 
it. He’s not immediately receptive to the idea, but Stacy’s in Hard Leverage that requires that the character suffers 
a good place to continue. a breaking point removes one Door (if the modifier to the 

The next day, Stacy emails the professor about a related roll — not considering the character’s breaking points — is 
work (Manipulation + Academics), but fails. Future rolls will greater than -2) or two Doors (if the modifier is -3 or less). 
have a -1 penalty. The Storyteller decides that the impression 
level slips to average. Example

Stacy still has to overcome three Doors. She spends the In the example above, assume Stacy really needs that book 
next week doing research into Erickson and discovers that now. She goes to Erickson and threatens him at gunpoint to 
he wants to become a respected academic. She tells Erickson give up the book. Doing this is definitely a breaking point for 
that she has a colleague who can help break the cipher in Stacy (see p. 73 for more on breaking points). She applies a 
which the book is written. This removes one Door without modifier for her Integrity, and then a modifier based on the 
a roll. Now she must overcome two more before he’ll agree. severity of the action and the harm it does to her self-image 
(Note that even if Stacy has no intention of helping Erickson and psyche. She’s not in the habit of committing violent acts 
in his quest toward academic glory, as long as he reasonably and Erickson is obviously terrified, so the Storyteller assigns 
believes that lending her the book will help him achieve his a -2 modifier to the breaking point roll. This being the case, 
Aspiration, it opens the Door.) one Door is removed. If she’d shot him the leg to let him 

During her research into the professor’s personality, she know she was serious, the breaking point modifier would 
also learns that his Vice is Vanity; he likes to see himself as have been at least -3, which would have removed two Doors. 
the hero. Stacy goes to his office in tears, saying that she is In either case, her player rolls Presence + Intimidation plus 
in danger of being accused of plagiarism for copying a paper, any bonus for the gun, minus the appropriate penalty. 
and asks if he can help authenticate her work. Doing this 
allows him to come to her rescue, which in turn lets him soak 
up some praise; this would allow him to regain Willpower Influencing Groups
through his Vice, and as such is enough of a temptation to Influencing a group works in the same way, using the 
raise the impression level back to good. Stacy’s player rolls same system. This generally means that influencing a 
Manipulation + Expression for Stacy to compose a letter of group requires at least an excellent level impression, or 
thanks to him, and achieves an exceptional success. The last forcing their Doors, unless the group meets regularly. The 

83 
Social Maneuvering



Storyteller determine Doors using the highest Resolve and 
Composure scores in the group. She also determines three 
Aspirations, a Virtue, Vice, and relative Integrity score for 
the group. When resolving the influence, most members Chase Modifiers
will abide by the stated goal. Individual members may de- Circumstance Modifier
part and do as they will, but a clear majority does as your 
player suggests. Opponent’s Speed is higher +1

than yours

Successive Efforts Opponent’s Speed is twice +3
yours

After opening all Doors and resolving the action’s goal, Opponent’s Speed is ten +5
your character may wish to influence the same person or times yours
group again. If successful, successive influence attempts 
begin with one fewer Door. If failed, or if hard leverage was Initiative modifier is higher -1
employed, successive influence attempts begin with two more than your opponent’s
Doors. These modifiers are cumulative. No matter what, a Initiative modifier is twice -2
character will always have at least one Door at the outset. your opponent’s

Initiative modifier is three -3

Chases times your opponent’s
Your character knows the -1

Chases are a common element of horror stories. Someone territory
or something chases, and with it comes death or worse. In Your character knows the -3
most action scenes, a character’s Speed trait determines territory intimately
how much he can move. This means that generally, you can 
figure out who is faster without dice. However, these rules Size is lower than -1

opponent’s
let you turn the chase into the focus of the scene, and add 
granularity and depth to it. Opponent cannot be tired +2

Environment is actively +1 to +3, 
Set the Terms dangerous Storyteller 

discretion
First, determine the terms of the chase. Start with the 

initial lead, as well as what it would take for either the pursuer Opponent starts with one +1
to catch her prey, or the prey to successfully flee. These traits turn lead
reflect the number of successes each party needs to either Opponent starts with two or +2
escape or catch their quarry. If there are multiple parties more turns lead
involved, they should each be defined as pursuer or prey for 
these purposes.

The base number of successes for a given character to 
prevail is five. Modify that with the following variables as 
examples, but feel free to make up your own. Use only the scene. As the context changes from turn to turn, the character 

highest modifier for a specific category. Also note that each with more ability to maneuver has the Edge, and can tempo-

character has his own target number here. rarily control the flow of the chase. In terms of the narrative, 

Note that this target number can change from turn to that character has managed to manipulate the circumstances 

turn. Smart players can manipulate their character’s circum- of the chase to her advantage. Her player should work with 

stances in their favor. the Storyteller to determine what that means.

If the pursuer achieves the required successes, she reaches This is usually determined with relative ease. In a crowded 

the prey and gets one instant action before moving into street, a character on foot has better ability to maneuver than 

Initiative. If the prey reaches the required successes, he suc- a character in a car. In his cornfield, a farmer has better ability 

cessfully evades his pursuer, and the chase ends. The pursuer to maneuver than a mysterious stranger. Often, preparation 

will need to use other methods to rediscover the prey. can influence this; if you can choose the environment, you 
can pick somewhere with an inherent advantage. 

The Edge If you can’t easily determine who has the Edge at a given 
moment, make a contested roll. Usually, this will be based 

In a plain, open space with flat ground and full visibility, on Wits or Dexterity. The relevant Skill should relate to the 
the character with the higher Speed will overcome in a chase. context. Often, this will be Athletics, Streetwise, Survival, or 
However, this is rarely the case in the Chronicles of Darkness. similar. Don’t be limited; let characters lean on their areas 
Environments shift. Weather changes. Obstacles pepper the of expertise when possible. In an abandoned factory, a savvy 

84 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



character may be able to maneuver through labyrinthine turn. You can lose one combined success from your total, 
machinery with Dexterity + Crafts, for example. or your character suffers a specific narrative effect such as a 

If the context of the scene changes significantly, redeter- Tilt, two bashing, or one lethal damage. 
mine who has the Edge. Success: Your character overcomes the immediate chal-

lenge in the chase, and makes headway. Calculate successes, 

Turn-By-Turn and add them to your running total. 
Exceptional Success: In addition to a massive accumula-

Chase turns reflect between 30 seconds and a minute tion of successes, your character manages to set back the 
of game time; if you’re running an extended chase that lasts opponent. You can subject him to the effects of a failed roll, 
hours, instead break it up into a series of incidents during regardless of his roll’s outcome. 
the chase, each represented by its own individual chase.

At the beginning of every turn, the side with the Edge 
determines the terms of that turn. At Storyteller discretion, Seizing the Edge
the side with the Edge determines the dice pool for the chase To add a slightly deeper engagement, offer players the choice 
that turn, and makes the first roll. This dice pool has to make to “Seize the Edge” during each turn of the chase. After the 
sense within the current context of the chase, but the player side with the Edge determines the rolls for that turn, both sides 
should have at least some say in what changes in that turn. As predict their rolled successes that turn, and jot them down. Put 
Storyteller, only veto these choices if they absolutely do not these numbers face down on the table. As the dice are rolled, 
make sense in the moment. The roll doesn’t have to reflect uncover those numbers. If a player successfully guesses their 
direct pursuit or evasion actions, but is identical for both rolled successes, that player gets the Edge during the next turn, 
sides. The roll should have a narrative element, one which despite dice and circumstance. This rule heavily favors underdogs 
implies potential stakes for failure. because it’s easier to guess successes with fewer dice; it’s a good 

Example: The player with the Edge determines that this turn, option to mix up play if the players are trying to evade something 
the dice pool is Wits + Animal Ken. The reasoning behind this is that would otherwise outclass them. 
that the chase has moved into a junkyard full of feral dogs. The roll 
reflects the characters’ ability to maneuver around the dogs without 
being slowed or worse, attacked. 

If the other side wishes to use other dice pools, they lose 
the 10-again quality on his roll, and suffer a cumulative -1 
penalty. This penalty increases every time he uses a dice 
pool aside from the one dictated. He does not suffer it on 
turns where he has the Edge or otherwise uses the dictated 
dice pool, but it continues to amass if he decides not to on 
a future turn. 

Note that the side with the Edge rolls first; this means if 
they hit the required successes, they get their desired outcome 
for the chase before the other side makes their roll.

Pursuit and Evasion 
This is the basic action for pursuit and 

evasion in a chase scene. 
Dice Pool: Special, deter-

mined by the side with the 
Edge. The Storyteller should 
determine relevant bonuses 
and penalties based on the 
environment. 

Action: Instant
Dramatic Failure: Your 

character suffers the terms 
for failure that turn. This 
can include the effects 
of failure, as well as a 
Condition. 

Fai lure :  Your 
character suffers the 
terms for failure that 

85 
Chases



The Social Chase addictions keep dragging him back to old habits. It’s all 
conflict, and conflict is what stories are all about.

The chase rules can be used for scenes besides traditional When conflict is so irreconcilable that words and compro-
foot pursuits or car chases. You could use this for tracking mise aren’t enough to resolve it, violence breaks out. In the 
a suspect, for example. Or, you could use this system as an Chronicles of Darkness, violence breaks out a lot. Monsters 
alternative to Social Maneuvering, which normally reflects at- prey on unsuspecting victims, creating vengeful survivors. 
tempts to find vulnerabilities and wear down social defenses. People see things they can’t deal with and lash out against 
These rules offer a more direct social “chase.” It doesn’t even what they don’t understand. Horrors that lurk behind the 
require direct modification; you can simply use these rules world’s facade of picket fences war with each other, and the 
with slightly different narrative framing. In a social chase, ripples throw lives into chaos. Inevitably, something calls the 
the goal is to get a character into a social position where he characters to fight, even if it’s just for survival. This section 
has to act in a certain way. Picture a character trying to con- presents rules for resolving violent conflict.
vince a wealthy patron to financially back her run for Waste 
Management Commissioner. Her efforts are all about getting Intent
the patron in the right place at the right time, where he can’t 
say no. It means maneuvering into the right venue, when just Most people don’t resort to violence unless they want 
the right witnesses are around, and all before he has a chance something badly, more than they care about other people’s 
to back her rival. Sounds kind of like a chase, doesn’t it? safety. The first thing to do when combat begins — before 

worrying about who attacks first or anything like that — 
is to determine what each character wants to get out of 

Violence the fight. Boil it down into a simple sentence that starts 
with the words “I want”: “I want to kill Johnny,” “I want 

Everybody wants something. Drama happens when the book that Francesca is holding,” or “I want what’s in 
characters want things that are mutually exclusive. A vampire Larry’s wallet.” Even “I want to get away from this gun-
wants to drink the local bartender dry, but the bartender toting psycho” is a valid intent. A character’s intent has to 
wants to go on with her life and raise her daughter in peace. be something he could achieve through an act of violence 
A street gang wants to stake its claim to a neighborhood, in the current scene — even a gunman on the White House 
but another gang wants the same territory and isn’t willing lawn couldn’t get away with “I want to be President of the 
to share. An ex-con wants to turn his life around, but his United States.”

86 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



By stating her character’s intent, a player is setting out how are participating, they can use teamwork (see p. 72) on the 
much her character is willing to hurt, or even kill, someone roll. Players can call for Down and Dirty Combat, with the 
else in order to get it. If a character’s intent has nothing to Storyteller’s approval. Storyteller characters might deal dam-
do with hurting people and she ends up killing someone, she age as a result of a Down and Dirty Combat, but they can’t 
loses a point of Willpower, in addition to probably suffering initiate one.
a breaking point (see p. 73). Dice Pool: Combat pool (Dexterity + Firearms, Strength + 

Brawl, or Strength + Weaponry) versus either the opponent’s 
Optional Rule:  combat pool (as above) or an attempt to escape (Strength or 

Beaten Down & Surrender Dexterity + Athletics). Ignore Defense on this roll.
Action: Contested; resistance is reflexive

Often, violent solutions to problems are grisly, ugly, and Roll Results
over fast. Using this optional rule, any character that takes 
more than his Stamina in bashing damage or any amount of Dramatic Failure: The character’s opponent gets the up-

lethal damage gains the Beaten Down Tilt (see p. 280): he’s per hand in addition to dealing damage, as with failure. This 

had the fight knocked out of him. He must spend a point usually includes the opposite of the character’s intent — if 

of Willpower every time he wants to take a violent action she wanted to disable the guards so she could escape, she is 

until the end of the fight. He can still apply Defense against stunned instead.

incoming attacks, Dodge, and flee, but it takes a point of Failure: The opponent wins the contest. If the opponent 

Willpower to swing or shoot back. used a combat pool, he deals damage equal to the difference 

However, he can instead surrender, giving his attacker in successes plus weapon modifier. Also, the opponent es-

what she wants according to her declared intent. If a character capes unless he wants to press the combat.

gives in, he gains a point of Willpower and his player takes a Success: The character wins the contest. She deals damage 

Beat, but he takes no more part in the fight. If his opponent equal to the difference in successes plus her weapon modifier 

wants to attack him, she’s got to spend a point of Willpower and achieves her intent. If her intent includes killing her 

to do so, and probably suffers a breaking point. If everyone opponents, then she does so.

on one side has surrendered, the fight’s over and the other Exceptional Success: As a success, and the character also 

side gets what they want. gains a point of Willpower from the rush of inflicting violence 

If one side’s intent involves violence for its own sake, on an inferior opponent.

the other side can’t surrender — not without being killed or 
harmed anyway. If that’s the case, the aggressor’s intended Willpower
victims don’t get the Beaten Down Tilt, and gain no benefits Violence is brutal; there’s no way around it. Sure, armor 
from surrendering. When someone wants to kill you, the or supernatural powers can protect a combatant from the 
only thing you can do is to try to stop her, whether you run worst of it, but one lucky hit can reduce anyone to a bag of 
like hell or unload a shotgun at her. bones. In the Chronicles of Darkness, combat isn’t glorious 

These rules only apply to people who would incur a break- or romantic. It’s a carnal thrill, bloody and rough, and the 
ing point for committing (or attempting) “murder.” Creatures better you get at it, the more things out there will want your 
that don’t have a problem killing people in general can ignore head.
surrender without penalty and don’t have the fight beaten Players should expect that in order to win fights, they 
out of them like normal folks. usually need to spend Willpower (see p. 73). It takes a perfect 

Down and Dirty Combat storm of skill, grit, adrenaline, and blind luck to walk out of a 
skirmish in one piece, especially when deadly weapons are in-

The Storyteller might decide that a player character can volved. Willpower in combat represents the grit and adrenaline. 

get what she wants without focusing on the details of the Characters only fight when something’s important enough 

fight. Maybe she’s picking on people weaker than her. Maybe to hurt someone over, so players should be willing to ante up 

she’s internalized the mechanics of violence to a degree that their character’s precious mental resources to come out on top.

far surpasses the average Joe. Maybe the fight’s not the most While a player has to monitor her character’s Willpower 

important thing going on with regard to the character’s throughout the whole story, a Storyteller character won’t 

intent. In these cases, the Storyteller can opt to use Down be present in most of the scenes, so it doesn’t matter if he 

and Dirty Combat. blows more Willpower — he can regain it offscreen, and even 

This system resolves the entire fight in a single roll. If if he doesn’t, it’s not like he’s going to spend it later. This 

multiple player characters are involved and have separate is especially noticeable in direct conflict, when Storyteller 

intents, such as one character trying to fight past a guard characters can spend Willpower to hurt characters who have 

while another beats information out of a flunky, each intent surrendered, enhance their attacks, and defend themselves 

is resolved as a separate Down and Dirty Combat action. If with greater ability than the players’ characters.

the group only has one intent but multiple player characters The Storyteller should reduce his characters’ available 
Willpower in each scene to reflect their “one shot” nature. 

87 
Violence



Mooks, thugs, and similar nameless characters don’t have any turn entirely — he may act at any time during the next turn, 
Willpower available to spend. Minor named characters — the but for subsequent turns his Initiative resets to what it was 
kind who recur but aren’t the main antagonists of a story — before he delayed his action.
have one point of Willpower available. Recurring antagonists 
and major Storyteller characters can spend up to half their Surprise
maximum Willpower in a scene. 

Characters who don’t realize they’re about to be on the 
Storyteller characters with reduced Willpower totals can 

receiving end of bloody violence have a chance to notice the 
still regain spent points through normal means, but can’t 

ambush by rolling Wits + Composure, contested by the attacker’s 
go above their modified Willpower total for a scene. Note, 

Dexterity + Stealth. Any character who fails the roll cannot take 
though, that their Resolve + Composure values are unaffected, 

an action in the first turn of combat, and can’t apply Defense 
in case the Storyteller needs to have them roll this dice pool, 

for that turn. Determine Initiative in the second turn as normal.
and supernatural powers that drain Willpower work normally.

Initiative Attack
On each character’s turn, he can attack using one of the 

When a fight’s inevitable, it helps to know who acts first. 
following dice pools:

Time in combat is always tracked in turns, and one turn in-
cludes one action for each character in the scene. At the start •	 Unarmed Combat: Strength + Brawl - opponent’s 
of a violent conflict or other dramatic encounter in which Defense
it’s important or easier to have characters act one at a time, 
determine each character’s Initiative by rolling one die and •	 Melee Combat: Strength + Weaponry - opponent’s 
adding her Initiative modifier. Defense

The Storyteller should write down each character’s •	 Ranged Combat: Dexterity + Firearms
Initiative and put them in order, including both player charac-
ters and Storyteller characters. The Initiative order determined •	 Thrown Weapons: Dexterity + Athletics - opponent’s 
here is the order in which the characters will act during each Defense
turn until something happens to change it, such as a character 

Resolve the attack roll like any other action. Determine 
dropping a weapon (see below). Characters with high Initiative 

damage by adding the successes rolled to any weapon modi-
react quickly and get the jump on the others, while characters 

fier. The target fills this many Health boxes with whichever 
with low Initiative are hesitant, indecisive, or just slow to act. 

type of damage was dealt. See “Injury and Healing,” below.
Each turn, the Storyteller should take a moment to describe 
how the lay of the land has changed since the last turn.

Lining up a shot or hefting a baseball bat takes more Defense
effort than just swinging a fist. When a character is using a Subtract the character’s Defense from any unarmed, 
weapon, apply its Initiative penalty for as long as she’s got melee, or thrown attacks of which the character is aware. 
the weapon ready. The only way to avoid this modifier is to Every time a character applies his Defense against an attack, 
sling it or drop it. Dropping a weapon is a reflexive action, reduce his Defense by 1 against subsequent attacks until the 
but picking it back up takes an instant action, as does just start of the next turn, when the character at the top of the 
drawing a weapon normally. A character wielding two weap- Initiative order acts again. Spending a point of Willpower 
ons subtracts the largest Initiative penalty from her score, increases his Defense by 2, but only against one attacker.
and then reduces it by a further one. Wielding a crowbar A player can choose not to apply his character’s Defense 
(Initiative penalty -2) and a riot shield (Initiative penalty -4) against some attacks. If two unarmed gangbangers attack 
thus applies a -5 to the roll. before a chainsaw-wielding lunatic, he might want to let the 

gangbangers get their blows in, and apply his full Defense 
Delaying Actions against the maniac swinging a chainsaw at his head.

A player may not want his character to act when his Some types of combat actions require a character to 
Initiative says he should. Maybe he can’t see his opponent sacrifice his Defense for the turn. A character may only sac-
yet, or wants to see how someone will react to the changing rifice Defense for one such action at a time; for instance, he 
landscape of the fight before he does anything else. The player couldn’t give up Defense to perform an All-Out Attack and 
can choose to delay his character’s action, waiting for a better Charge at the same time. He must choose one.
moment to act later in the turn. He can alert the Storyteller Defense does not apply against Firearms attacks.
that he wants to take his delayed action at any time during the 
turn. If he does so, his place in the Initiative order changes Dodge
to the new delayed one for the rest of the fight. At any point before a character’s action, she can choose to 

If a player delays his character’s action for so long that Dodge. Doing so takes up her normal action. When Dodging, 
the next turn begins — thus sacrificing his action for that double the character’s Defense but do not subtract it from 

88 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



attack rolls. Instead, roll Defense as a dice pool, and subtract the attacker succeeds, the opponent drops his weapon. If 
each success from the attacker’s successes. If this reduces the the attacker gets an exceptional success, she takes possession 
attacker’s successes to zero, the attack deals no damage. Apply of the opponent’s weapon. On a dramatic failure, she takes 
successes from Dodging before adding any weapon modifier. damage equal to the weapon’s modifier — if she’s struggling 
Dodging only works when Defense can apply. over a gun, for instance, the gun goes off.

Against multiple opponents, reduce Defense by 1 for each 
opponent before doubling it to determine the Dodge dice Grapple
pool. If Defense is reduced to 0, roll a chance die. A dramatic 

To grab an opponent, roll Strength + Brawl - Defense. On 
failure when Dodging leaves the character off balance; reduce 

a success, both characters are grappling. If the attacker rolls 
her Defense by 1 for the next turn.

an exceptional success, he picks a move from the list below 

Unarmed Combat to enact immediately.
During each subsequent turn, both grappling characters 

These rules present special cases that come up when make a contested Strength + Brawl versus Strength + Brawl 
fighting without weapons. action on the higher of the two characters’ Initiatives. The 

winner picks a move from the list below to enact immediately, 
Bite or two moves on an exceptional success.

A human’s teeth have a -1 weapon modifier and deal •	 Break Free from the grapple. The character throws 
bashing damage. Animals and some other creatures treat off his opponent; they’re both no longer grappling. 
their teeth like weapons, dealing lethal damage to mortals. Succeeding at this move is a reflexive action, so the char-
Animal bites have a weapon modifier depending on the kind acter can take another action immediately afterwards.
of animal: a wolf applies +1, while a great white shark gets +4. •	 Control Weapon, either by drawing a weapon the 

Humans can only bite as part of a grapple, using the character has holstered or turning his opponent’s 
Damage move (see below). weapon against her. He keeps control until his op-

Disarm ponent performs a Control Weapon move.

To snatch an opponent’s weapon away, roll Strength + •	 Damage the opponent by dealing bashing dam-
Brawl contested by the opponent’s Strength + Athletics. If age equal to the character’s rolled successes. If the 

89 
Violence



character performing the move previously succeeded one target, subtract the total number of targets from 
at a Control Weapon action, add the weapon modifier the shooter’s pool, then make one attack roll per target.
to his successes.

•	 Long Burst: 20 bullets at as many targets as the shooter 
•	 Disarm the opponent, removing a weapon from the wants. The shooter receives a three-die bonus to her 

grapple entirely. The character must first have suc- dice pool. If firing at more than one target, subtract 
ceeded at a Control Weapon move. the total number of targets from the shooter’s pool, 

then make one attack roll per target.
•	 Drop Prone, throwing both characters to the ground 

(see “Going Prone,” below). A character must Break 
Free before rising. Covering Fire

Characters can use automatic weapons to provide covering 
•	 Hold the opponent in place. Neither character can fire — firing on full auto to dissuade enemies from coming out 

apply Defense against incoming attacks. into the open. Covering fire is only possible with a weapon 
•	 Restrain the opponent with duct tape, zip ties, capable of fully automatic fire.

or a painful joint lock. The opponent suffers the The player states the general area at which he is firing, and 
Immobilized Tilt (p. 284). A character can only use rolls Dexterity + Firearms. If the roll succeeds, each character 
this move if he’s already succeeded in a Hold move. If in the affected area must make a choice on his next action. 
he uses equipment to Restrain the opponent, he can He can avoid the attack, either running to cover within range 
leave the grapple. of his Speed, or dropping prone (see “Going Prone,” below). 

Or, he can take an action as normal but suffer damage based 
•	 Take Cover using the opponent’s body. Any ranged on the Covering Fire successes + weapon modifier. Covering 

attacks made until the end of the turn automatically fire takes 10 bullets, the same as firing a medium burst.
hit the opponent (see “Human Shields,” below).

Firearms in Close Combat
Touching an Opponent Any firearm larger than Size 1 is too big to accurately shoot 

someone when fists and crowbars are the order of the day. In 
Sometimes, a combatant doesn’t want to do damage. 

close combat, the target’s Defense against Firearms attacks 
Maybe she wants to plant a bug, or use some supernatural 

is increased by the gun’s (Size +1). If using a gun larger than 
power. Roll Dexterity + Brawl or Dexterity + Weaponry to 

a pistol to bludgeon the opponent, treat it as an improvised 
tap an opponent with a weapon. A successful roll deals no 

crowbar (see Weapon Traits, p. 268).
damage.

Ranged Combat Range
The firearms chart (below) lists the short, medium, and 

These rules present special cases that come up when long ranges of some sample firearms. Shooting a target at 
shooting at people. medium range imposes a -1 penalty, while shooting a target at 

long range increases that to -2 penalty. Shooting at targets be-
Aiming yond long range reduces the attack dice pool to a chance die.

If a character takes an instant action to aim carefully at an Thrown weapons have a short range of (Strength + 
opponent with a ranged weapon, the player enjoys a one-die Dexterity + Athletics - object’s Size) yards or meters, doubled 
bonus to the attack roll when he fires on the next turn. A for medium range, and doubled again for long range. 
character can aim for multiple turns in a row at the same target, Aerodynamic objects double each range — so an aerodynamic 
to a maximum of a three-die bonus. If a character applies his object’s long range is {(Strength + Dexterity + Athletics) * 8} 
Defense while aiming, he loses his accumulated bonus and yards or meters. Characters can only throw objects with a 
must start over. Aiming is incompatible with autofire (below). Size less than their Strength.

Autofire Cover and Concealment
Automatic weapons can fire a short, medium, or long Hiding behind something is a good way to not get shot. 

burst in place of a single shot. How effective it is depends on how much the cover hides. 
Concealment penalties apply to a shooter’s dice pool.

•	 Short Burst: Three bullets fired at the same target. 
The shooter enjoys a +1 to her dice pool. •	 Barely Concealed: -1 (hiding behind an office chair)

•	 Medium Burst: 10 bullets, which can hit one to three •	 Partially Concealed: -2 (hiding behind the hood of a 
targets standing close together. The shooter receives a car, with upper body exposed)
two-die bonus to her dice pool. If firing at more than 

•	 Substantially Concealed: -3 (crouching behind a car)

90 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



Combat Summary Chart
STAGE ONE: INTENT

• The players and the Storyteller describe what their characters want out of the fight.
• Decide whether characters can surrender and become Beaten Down.

Stage Two: Initiative
• If the attacker springs an ambush or otherwise strikes when the defender isn’t able to counter, the defend-

er rolls Wits + Composure contested by the attacker’s Dexterity + Stealth. If the defender fails, she doesn’t 
act on the first turn of combat and cannot apply Defense against attacks.

• Everyone rolls Initiative: the result of a single die roll + Dexterity + Composure. If the character has a 
weapon readied, apply its Initiative Modifier. 

STAGE THREE: ATTACK
• Unarmed Combat: Strength + Brawl - opponent’s Defense
• Melee Combat: Strength + Weaponry - opponent’s Defense
• Ranged Combat: Dexterity + Firearms
• Thrown Weapons: Dexterity + Athletics - opponent’s Defense
A character’s Defense is normally subtracted from any attack dice pools where it applies. If she chooses to 
Dodge, the defender rolls double her Defense as a dice pool against each attack. Each success reduces 
the attacker’s successes by one. If the attacker is reduced to zero successes, the attack does nothing. If the 
attacker has successes remaining, add any weapon modifier to the number of successes to determine how 
many points of Health the target loses. All weapons deal lethal damage. 

STAGE FOUR: DESCRIPTION
The Storyteller describes the attack and wounds in narrative terms.

POSSIBLE MODIFIERS
• Aiming: +1 per turn to a +3 maximum.
• All-Out Attack: +2 with Brawl or Weaponry attack; lose Defense.
• Armor Piercing: Ignores amount of target’s armor equal to item’s rating.
• Autofire Long Burst: 20 or so bullets, no target limit pending Storyteller approval. A +3 applies to each 

attack roll; -1 per roll for each target after the first.
• Autofire Medium Burst: 10 or so bullets at one to three targets, with a +2 to each attack roll; -1 per roll for 

each target after the first.
• Autofire Short Burst: Three bullets at a single target with a +1 to the roll.
• Charge: Move at twice Speed and attack with Brawl or Weaponry in one action; lose Defense.
• Concealment: Barely -1; partially -2; substantially -3; fully, see “Cover.”
• Cover: Subtract Durability from damage; if Durability is greater than the weapon modifier, the attack has 

no effect.
• Dodge: Double Defense, roll as a dice pool with each success subtracting one from the attacker’s 

successes.
• Drawing a Weapon: Requires instant action without a Merit and could negate Defense.
• Firing from Concealment: Shooter’s own concealment quality (-1, -2, or -3) reduced by 1 as a penalty to 

fire back (so, no modifier, -1, or -2).
• Offhand Attack: -2 to attack roll.
• Prone Target: -2 to hit in ranged combat; +2 to hit within close-combat distance.
• Pulling Blow: Target gains 1 Defense; the attack can’t deal more than chosen maximum damage.
• Range: -2 at medium range, -4 at long range.
• Shooting into Close Combat: -2 per combatant avoided in a single shot (not applicable to autofire); -4 if 

grappling.
• Specified Target: Torso -1, leg or arm -2, head -3, hand -4, eye -5.
• Surprised or Immobilized Target: Defense doesn’t apply.
• Touching a Target: Dexterity + Brawl or Dexterity + Weaponry; armor may or may not apply, but Defense 

does apply.
• Willpower: Add three dice to a roll or +2 to a Resistance trait (Stamina, Resolve, or Composure) in one 

roll or instance.

91 
Violence



A character who is concealed and wants to fire at some- Going Prone
one else takes a penalty to his Firearms attack that’s one 
less than the penalty afforded by the character’s protection When a character can’t find cover, the next best thing 
— so if he’s substantially concealed, he can fire back with when bullets are flying is to drop flat to the ground. Ranged 
a –2 die penalty. and thrown attacks against him suffer a -2. A standing at-

If a target’s entirely hidden by something substantial, he’s tacker using Brawl or Weaponry to attack instead gains a +2.
in cover. If the cover’s Durability is greater than the weapon A character can drop prone at any point before his action. 
modifier, the bullets can’t penetrate the cover. Otherwise, Dropping to the ground costs his action for the turn, as does 
subtract the cover’s Durability from the attacker’s damage getting back up from a prone position.
roll. If the cover is transparent (bulletproof glass, for example), 
subtract half the cover’s Durability, rounding down. Both the All-Out Attack
object and the target take any remaining damage. A character can sacrifice her Defense for the turn in order 

to gain a +2 to her attack with Brawl or Weaponry, throw-
Shooting into Close Combat ing caution to the wind and leaving herself open to be more 

If a character fires or throws a ranged weapon at a target aggressive. If she has already applied her Defense against an 
who is involved in close combat with other characters she attack before her action occurs, she can’t do an all-out attack.
doesn’t want to hit, like allies or bystanders, the player takes 
a -2 to her attack for each combatant she wants to avoid, or Offhand Attack
-4 for a combatant who is currently in a grapple. This rule If a character attacks with her non-dominant hand, 
doesn’t apply to autofire (see above). whether because her dominant hand is injured, carrying 

something, or otherwise occupied, or because she’s wield-
Human Shields ing two weapons at once, the player takes a -2 to her attack.

Sometimes, the only available cover is another person — be he 
a terrified member of the public or a lifelong friend. Characters Pulling Blows
who use human shields treat them as cover, with Durability equal Sometimes a character wants to beat the fight out of some-
to the victim’s Stamina + any armor. Unlike normal cover, the one without killing him. She can choose to pull her blow, 
victim takes all of the damage from the attack. not putting full force behind the attack. The player chooses a 

Using a human shield is almost certainly a breaking point maximum amount of damage for the blow that can’t exceed 
(see p. 73). For a human, this means a pretty severe modifier the higher trait in her character’s attack pool — for example, 
(-3 or more) if the victim dies. if the character has Strength 2 and Brawl 4, the player can 

choose between 1 and 4 points as her maximum damage. 
Reloading If she would deal more damage with the attack, any extra is 

Reloading a firearm is an instant action. If a character ignored. Because she’s holding back, it’s easier for the oppo-
needs to load bullets separately, she cannot apply her Defense nent to ward off the blow; the defender gains +1 to Defense.
on the same turn. If she has a magazine or speed loader, she At the Storyteller’s discretion, a character can reflexively 
doesn’t lose her Defense. spend a point of Willpower when pulling her blow with a 

weapon to deal bashing damage. Otherwise, the only way to 

General Combat Factors avoid dealing lethal damage is to stop using a lump of metal 
or wood to inflict trauma.

Some actions apply to all kinds of fights.
Specified Targets

Movement Attacking specific body parts has its benefits. In addition 
A character can move his Speed in a single turn and still to ignoring armor (see “Armor,” p. 94), strikes to the limbs 

take an instant action. He can give up his action to move at and head can have added effects, represented by Tilts (see 
double his normal Speed. below). These attacks take dice penalties depending on the 

body part targeted, noted below.
Charging •	 Arm (-2): A damaging hit can inflict the Arm Wrack 

A character can sacrifice her Defense for the turn to move Tilt if it deals more damage than the target’s Stamina
up to twice her Speed and make a Brawl or Weaponry attack 
in the same action, charging in heedless of incoming threats. •	 Leg (-2): A damaging hit can inflict the Leg Wrack Tilt 
If she has already applied her Defense against an attack before if it deals more damage than the target’s Stamina
her action occurs, she can’t Charge. •	 Head (-3): A damaging attack can inflict the Stunned 

Tilt if it deals at least as much damage as the target’s Size

92 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



•	 Heart (-3): If the attacker does at least five points of shifts to the Blind Condition. Resolving this Condition gives 
damage, the weapon pierces the opponent’s heart, the character a Beat. If the character enters combat again be-
with special effects for some monstrous targets fore the Condition is resolved, the Blinded Tilt applies again.

Tilts come in two forms: Personal and Environmental. 
•	 Hand (-4): On a damaging hit, the victim suffers the Personal Tilts only apply to one character and include ways in 

Arm Wrack Tilt which that character can overcome the effect. Environmental 
Tilts affect the whole scene, and offer ways for individual 

•	 Eye (-5): On a damaging hit, the victim suffers the 
characters to mitigate their effects.

Blinded Tilt
For a full description of each Tilt, see the Appendix (p. 

280).
Tilts

Tilts are a unified way of applying circumstances to both Killing Blow
characters and scenes during violent encounters. Tilts are me- A character can make a killing blow when her opponent 
chanically similar to Conditions, but they affect characters and is unconscious, completely immobile, or otherwise totally 
scenes in combat only. Outside combat, use Conditions instead. defenseless. When doing so, the character deals damage equal 

Tilts do not give players Beats when they end, but the to her full dice pool plus her weapon modifier. She has time 
effects of a Tilt can easily cause a Condition. For instance, a enough to line up her attack so it avoids her victim’s armor.
character in a fight gets a handful of road salt flung into his While people who kill in combat can justify their actions 
eyes and receives the Blinded Tilt. When combat ends, this based on the heat of the moment, performing a killing blow 

Tilt Reference
This quick reference can help players and Storytellers alike remember the effects of each Tilt detailed in the 
Appendix.

PERSONAL TILTS

Tilt Effects
Arm Wrack One arm: Drop anything held, suffer off-hand penalties for most rolls. Both arms: 

Chance die on rolls requiring manual dexterity, -3 to other Physical actions.
Beaten Down Cannot take violent action in combat without spending Willpower.
Blinded One eye: -3 to vision-related rolls. Both eyes: -5 to vision-related rolls, lose all 

Defense.
Deafened One ear: -3 to Perception rolls. Both ears: Chance die on Perception rolls, -2 to com-

bat rolls.
Drugged -2 Speed, -3 to combat rolls (including Defense and Perception). Ignore wound 

penalties.
Immobilized No combat actions. Can’t move or apply Defense.
Insane +1 to combat rolls, act after everyone else, -3 to Social rolls, can’t spend Willpower.
Insensate No combat actions. Can move and apply Defense. Taking damage ends the Tilt.
Knocked Down Lose action this turn if it hasn’t been taken, knocked prone. Can apply Defense, attack 

from ground at -2.
Leg Wrack One leg: half Speed, -2 to Physical rolls for movement. Both legs: Knocked Down, give 

up action to move at Speed 1, movement-based Physical rolls reduced to chance die.
Poisoned Moderate: One point of bashing damage per turn. Grave: One point of lethal damage 

per turn.
Sick Moderate: -1 to all actions. Penalty increases by 1 every two turns. Grave: As moder-

ate, but also inflicts one point of bashing damage per turn.
Stunned Lose next action. Half Defense until the character next acts.

93 
Violence



Tilt Reference (Continued)
ENVIRONMENTAL TILTS

Tilt Effects
Blizzard -1 to visual Perception and ranged attack rolls, increased by 1 per 10 yards or meters. 

-1 to Physical rolls per four inches of snow.
Earthquake Penalty to Dexterity rolls depending on severity. Take one to three lethal damage per 

turn, Stamina + Athletics downgrades to bashing.
Extreme Cold Bashing damage doesn’t heal. -1 to all rolls, increasing by 1 per hour. At -5, further 

hours deal one point of lethal damage.
Extreme Heat Bashing damage doesn’t heal. -1 to all rolls, increasing by 1 per hour. At -5, further 

hours deal one point of lethal damage.
Flooded -2 to Physical dice pools per foot of flooding. Once water is over head, character must 

swim or hold breath.
Heavy Rain -3 to aural and visual Perception rolls.
Heavy Winds -3 to aural Perception rolls. Winds rated between 1 and 5, severity acts as penalty to 

Physical rolls and deals that much bashing damage per turn, Dexterity + Athletics to 
avoid.

Ice -2 Speed, -2 to Physical actions. Can move at normal Speed but -4 to Physical actions. 
Dramatic failure causes Knocked Down; Drive rolls are at -5 and half Acceleration.

is a premeditated attempt to end a sentient life without the Using an improvised weapon reduces your attack pool by 
target having a chance to do anything about it. Going through one die. On a successful attack, the weapon takes the same 
with a killing blow is a breaking point whether the victim amount of damage as it inflicts; Durability reduces this dam-
survives or not. age as normal. Once the weapon’s Structure is reduced to 0, 

the object is wrecked.

Weapons and Armor Armor
Weapons are one of the fastest ways to turn a fight into 

a murder. Sometimes, that’s what you want; pulling a gun Armor provides protection against attacks, including 
shows you’re serious about killing people. bullets and knives. Police officers and other law enforcement 

A weapon’s modifier, or damage rating, adds bonus successes agencies frequently rely on it.
to a successful attack roll. When a weapon might help out in •	 Ballistic armor applies to incoming firearms attacks. 
other ways, like using a chain to grapple someone, or a gun to Each point of ballistic armor downgrades one point 
intimidate her, add the weapon’s modifier to the attack roll. of damage from lethal to bashing.

Every weapon deals lethal damage. However, some super-
natural creatures don’t take lethal damage from weapons. •	 General armor applies to all attacks. Each point of 

The full traits of a range of weapons are presented in the general armor reduces the total damage taken by one 
Ranged and Melee Weapons Charts. point, starting with the most severe type of damage.

If armor has both ballistic and general ratings, apply the 
Improvised Weapons ballistic armor first.

The weapons charts can only go so far. Characters who When applying armor to an attack dealing lethal dam-
grab lamps and pool cues still stand a chance of doing seri- age, the character always takes at least one point of bashing 
ous damage. damage from the shock of the blow.

If your improvised weapon is close enough to one of the 
weapons on p. 268, use the associated weapon profile. For Armor-Piercing
example, a pool cue might count as a baton. Otherwise, an Some weapons have an armor piercing quality, usually 
improvised weapon does (Durability - 1) damage, with an between one and three. When attacking someone wearing 
Initiative penalty and Strength requirement equal to the armor, subtract the piercing quality from the target’s armor. 
weapon’s Size.

94 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



Subtract from ballistic armor first, then general armor. penalty from every action she performs, including rolling for 
Armor-piercing attacks in close combat subtract from general Initiative, but not including Stamina rolls to stay conscious.
armor only.

When shooting at an object — or a person in cover — Health Boxes Marked Penalty
subtract the piercing quality from the object’s Durability. Third-to-last -1

Injury and Healing Second-to-last -2
Last -3

Characters can suffer three types of damage. Fists and feet, 
along with other kinds of low-impact trauma, deal bashing Full Health Tracks  
damage. Brass knuckles, knives, and speeding trucks deal 
lethal damage. Human characters always take lethal damage and Upgrading Damage
from weapons. Some horrifying supernatural powers deal ag- If a character’s Health track is filled with bashing damage, 
gravated damage. When something deals aggravated damage each point of further bashing or lethal damage upgrades the 
directly, it’s quite obvious. Flesh bubbles and sloughs away. leftmost point of bashing damage to lethal — turn one of the 
Foaming pustules taint the victim’s flesh. Blackened veins slashes into an X. When a character’s rightmost Health box 
streak out from the site of the injury. has bashing damage marked in it, his player must make a 

A character’s Health track contains a number of boxes reflexive Stamina roll each turn for him to remain conscious.
equal to his Health trait, determined by his Stamina + Size. If a character’s Health track is filled with lethal damage, 

each point of further damage upgrades an existing point of 
Marking Damage lethal damage to aggravated. Turn the leftmost X into an 

When a character suffers bashing damage, mark it with a asterisk. When a character’s rightmost Health box has lethal 
slash (/) in the leftmost empty box of his health track. damage marked in it, he takes another point of damage each 

When a character suffers lethal damage, mark it with an minute (upgrading existing lethal damage to aggravated) until 
X in the leftmost box of his health track that doesn’t contain he receives medical attention, mundane or supernatural.
lethal or aggravated damage. If you mark over a point of If a character’s Health track is filled with aggravated 
bashing damage, it moves one box to the right. damage, he’s dead.

When a character suffers aggravated damage, mark it with 
a large asterisk (*) in the leftmost box that doesn’t already Temporary Health Boxes
contain aggravated damage. If you mark over a point of Some supernatural powers can bestow temporary Health 
bashing or lethal damage, it all moves one box to the right. boxes. If a character takes damage in a temporary Health box 

Always mark the most severe injuries at the left of a and then the effect that bestowed it ends, the damage rolls over 
character’s health track, and push any less severe injuries to into his permanent Health boxes as if he had just taken it anew.
the right. Characters heal their rightmost health boxes first 
and progress left. Healing

Example: Cassidy has seven boxes in her Health track. 
She’s just taken one point of bashing damage. Her Health Characters need time to heal once they’ve been beaten 

boxes look like this: to a pulp. Some supernatural creatures have other ways to 
heal, but human characters rely on time and medical care to 
set broken bones and heal bullet wounds.

A character heals her rightmost Health box at the rate 

If she’s later stabbed and takes a point of lethal damage, indicated below. The healing time is enough for the wound to 

her Health track would be: fully recover; lethal damage doesn’t downgrade into bashing. 
Normally, a character can heal without medical attention, 
though use of the Medicine Skill helps her recover (see p. 
96). The only exception is if a character has all her Health 

If Cassidy next suffered a point of aggravated damage, boxes full of lethal damage — she’s bleeding out. She can’t 

her Health boxes would look like this: recover from that without urgent medical attention and 
emergency surgery.

Wounds recover at the following rates:
•	 Bashing: One point per 15 minutes

Wound Penalties •	 Lethal: One point per two days

As a character takes damage, it impairs her ability to act. •	 Aggravated: One point per week
When one of her three rightmost Health boxes has dam- Example: After a scuffle with an off-duty cop, Cassidy’s out 
age marked, she suffers a penalty accordingly. Subtract this of harm’s way for now. She isn’t looking for another fight.

95 
Violence



Size: How large the object is. Objects smaller than Size 1 
can fit entirely in a person’s palm. See p. 26 for the Size chart.

Her Health track is the same as it was at the end of the fight. Structure: An object’s Structure equals its Durability + 
Her rightmost wounds heal first. Each point of bashing Size, and acts like Health. Each point of damage removes a 

damage takes 15 minutes to heal. Her lethal damage then point of Structure. Once it’s taken more damage than it has 
heals over the course of the next two days. Finally, her aggra- Durability, anyone using the object suffers a one-die penalty. 
vated wound heals over the course of the next week. In all, When its Structure hits 0, the object is destroyed. Objects do 
it’s taken a little over a week and two days for her to recover not differentiate between bashing and lethal damage.
from her injuries.

Medical Care Sources of Harm
The Medicine Skill can be used to speed up healing. Violence isn’t the only source of harm in the Chronicles 

Medical care is an extended action, requiring successes equal to of Darkness. These are some of the more common hazards 
the total number of points of damage suffered by the patient. In characters face.
the field or ER, the dice pool is Dexterity + Medicine, and the 
interval is one minute. In long-term hospital care, the pool is 
Intelligence + Medicine, and the interval is one hour. Usually, Disease
any Conditions from a failure afflict the patient rather than Outside of combat, a character who suffers from a disease 
the caregiver, but this is at Storyteller discretion. suffers damage over a period of time. Resisting the damage 

Achieving sufficient successes restores one Health point inflicted by a disease requires a reflexive Stamina + Resolve 
lost to bashing damage, in addition to any healing that the roll. This roll is not contested but the roll is modified by the 
character already does under his own power. severity of the disease. Only one success is necessary to avoid 

Round-the-clock, intensive care diminishes a patient’s damage each time.
injuries, downgrading the nature of wounds by one degree. Some diseases are the kind that people don’t heal from. A 
Thus, a lethal wound can be downgraded to bashing, and character’s cancer could go into remission, or he can hold his 
an aggravated wound can be downgraded to lethal. Such HIV back with medication, but time alone won’t cure them. 
treatment can occur only in a hospital or other intensive-care The Storyteller should set a benchmark of how many rolls the 
facility. An extended Intelligence + Medicine roll is made. character has to succeed at in a row for the disease to go into 
The number of successes required is five for a lethal wound remission. Medical treatment can offset any penalties to the 
and 10 for an aggravated one. Each roll requires an hour. Stamina + Resolve roll applied by the disease — but might inflict 

This kind of treatment always focuses on the worst of penalties on other rolls, as the cure is almost as bad as the disease.
the patient’s injuries first. Thus, an aggravated wound is 
downgraded to lethal before a lethal wound is downgraded Drugs
to bashing. No more than one wound can be downgraded 
per day of treatment. A character who has taken drugs, willingly or not, must 

Note that this treatment does not eliminate wounds. It fight off the effects of the drug. Resisting the effects requires 
simply minimizes them. A patient must heal downgraded a reflexive Stamina + Resolve roll. This roll is not contested 
injuries completely by himself or receive other treatment to but is modified by the potency of the drug ingested. Only 
eliminate them. one success is necessary for a character to regain her senses. 

In the case of some drugs, this roll must be made once per 

Objects hour, once per scene — or even once per turn, in the case of 
strong hallucinogens or narcotics.

In the Storytelling system, objects such as lead pipes, walls, Characters who overdose on drugs treat the drug like a 
or wardrobes have three traits: Durability, Size, and Structure. poison, with a Toxicity somewhere between 3 and 7. The 
Mostly, these relate to how easy the object is to destroy. overdose deals damage once per hour until the drug has run 

Durability: How hard the object is to damage. Subtract its course — if a character’s spent eight hours drinking, then 
Durability from any damage dealt to the object. Durability the poison takes another eight hours to fade, with a Toxicity 
has no effect against attacks that deal aggravated damage. between 3 (beer or wine) to 5 (rubbing alcohol). A character 

who injects stronger heroin than expected takes damage for 
Durability Material (eight minus Stamina) hours, with a Toxicity of 7.
1 Wood, hard plastic, thick glass
2 Stone, aluminum Electricity
3 Steel, iron Electrocution automatically causes bashing damage per 

turn of exposure. No attack roll is made.
+1 Per reinforced layer

96 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



If harm from electricity is more than just instantaneous, 
such as there’s a constant flow such as through power cables, 
a victim may not be able to escape. His muscles contract, Environment Levels
which can prevent him from pulling away. Roll Strength as 
a reflexive action during each turn of contact. Failure means Level Example Environs
your character is still connected to the source and suffers its 0 Safe environment
damage each turn until a successful roll is made.

1 Light snow, heavy storms; too cold to 
Source Damage sleep safely; air pressure causes short-

ness of breath; sweltering sun can cause 
Minor; wall socket 4 (B) first-degree burns
Major; protective fence 6 (B) 2 Heavy snow; cold causes physical pain 
Severe; junction box 8 (B) and potential hypothermia; sun quickly 

causes first degree burns, can cause 
Fatal; main line feed/subway rail 10 (B) second degree burns with time; minor 

radiation poisoning
Worn armor provides no protection against electrocution, 

although specialized, nonconductive clothing can reduce or 3 Desert exposure; heat rapidly causing 
eliminate the hazard. second-degree burns; moderate radia-

tion exposure

Extreme  4 Desert sandstorm, severe hurricane, tor-
nado, tsunami

Environments
The human body is not conditioned to 

withstand extreme heat, cold, air pressure, 
or other extreme weather conditions. These 
harsh conditions hinder and endanger unpre-
pared characters. When exposed to a harsh 
environment, the Storyteller assigns a level to 
the environment, using the chart below as a 
guideline. Survival gear can reduce the effective 
environment level. 

As long as characters are exposed to these 
conditions, they suffer the level of the envi-
ronment as a penalty to all actions. After a 
number of hours equal to the character’s 
Stamina, he takes bashing damage, once per 
hour. In the case of a level three exposure, the 
damage is lethal. Fourth level environments 
cause lethal damage each turn after a number 
of turns equal to the character’s Stamina. 

Any damage caused by level two through 
four exposure leaves lasting marks, scars, and 
tissue damage. Damage caused by extreme environ-
ments cannot be healed until the character is back 
in a safe environment. 

Falling
Falling inflicts one point of damage per three meters 

fallen. This is bashing damage, unless the character 
falls on something that would inflict lethal damage, 
like a sharp fence post or broken glass. If a character 
falls 30 meters or more, he reaches terminal velocity, 
and instead takes a flat 10 lethal damage, regardless of the 
total distance he falls.

If the character has the opportunity to slow his fall, for 
example by grabbing an awning, or to soften it, such as by 

97 
Sources of Harm



twisting to land on soil rather than concrete, his player may (local oxygen is removed with a controlled explosion or your 
make a Dexterity + Athletics roll, with each success on the roll character is completely immersed in water). Or, a fire could 
reducing the damage the character takes by one point. It’s typi- continue to burn despite efforts to put it out, as with a grease 
cally not possible to slow or soften a fall at terminal velocity. fire when water is poured on it.

Most armor can block its general rating in fire damage 

Fire automatically for a number of turns equal to that rating.

Fire automatically inflicts lethal damage per turn of 
exposure (no attack roll is required). The damage inflicted Poison
depends on both the size and intensity of the flames. Outside of combat, a character who is the victim of a 

Size of Fire Damage poison or toxin suffers lethal damage over a period of time 
equal to the poison’s Toxicity. Some substances deal this 

Torch 1 damage only once. Others deal this damage once per turn 
Bonfire 2 or once per hour until purged, or until the poison has run 

Inferno 3 its course. To resist the damage, make a reflexive Stamina 
+ Resolve – Toxicity roll. Each success reduces the damage 
taken by one. This roll must be made every time the poison 

Damage deals damage, unless the character stops fighting and gives in.
Heat of Fire Modifier
Candle (first-degree burns) —
Torch (second-degree burns) +1 Vehicles
Bunsen burner (third-degree burns) +2 In the Chronicles of Darkness, vehicles serve numerous 

functions. Of course, they get people from point A to point 
Horse* 8 12 Health 20 Chemical fire/molten metal +3 B. This is essential in a horror story, since getting away from 

So, a fire the size of a bonfire (2) and with the intensity a scare or rushing to protect the endangered are genre staples. 
of a torch (+1) inflicts three damage per turn of contact. However, for creative characters, they serve as effective weap-

In general, if exposure to fire persists for more than a ons against daunting threats, ways to close the gap between 
turn, it catches anything combustible. A burning character human capability and the supernatural, and as complex tools 
continues to take full damage, even if he escapes the original to solve complex problems. Characters stranded in the woods 
source of the flame. Depending on the accelerant involved, with a broken axle can use an engine block to cook dinner in 
the size of a fire can be reduced by one point per turn by a pinch, or to send smoke signals. With just some rope, a car 
means such as a hose or extinguisher. The Storyteller may rule becomes a towing machine, a way to interrogate a monster, 
that a fire goes out immediately under some circumstances or an inefficient but highly effective lockpick. 

Example Vehicles 
Vehicle Dice Modifier Size Durability/Structure Speed
Motorcycle -1 7 2/9 100
Compact Car -2 8 3/11 90
Family Car -3 12 3/15 80
Sports Car -1 10 2/12 140
Limousine -4 20 3/18 60
Van -3 18 3/21 80
Pickup Truck -2 15 4/19 80
SUV -2 15 4/19 100
Motorboat -2 10 2/12 60

98 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



Vehicle Traits • +1 Dice Modifier (limit +5)

These rules add specific traits to vehicles, while keeping • +2 dice to a secondary equipment bonus. For example, 
them relatively abstract. a masterful paint job which offers dice to Persuasion 

Dice Modifier: This is the amount subtracted or added rolls. (limit +4 per bonus)
from the driver’s Dexterity + Drive dice pools. 

• +0.5 Size (2 modifications add 1 Size, adds Structure)
Size: This is the general size of the vehicle. Size in the 

Storytelling System is an abstract that reflects weight, mass, •  +0.5 Durability (2 modifications add 1 Durability, 
bulkiness, and space. Look to the chart on p. 26 for guidelines. limit 5)

Durability: Durability reflects the general toughness of the 
materials, and their ability to withstand harm. Any time a vehicle • +2 Structure
would take damage, subtract its Durability from the amount 
suffered. As a rule, wood, thick glass, or hard plastic offer 1 •	 +5 Speed
Durability, stone or aluminum offer 2 Durability, and steel or 

•  Remove Slow Acceleration tag from vehicle. (3 
iron offer 3 Durability. Additional Durability can be added for re-

modifications)
inforced items. Sources of aggravated damage ignore Durability.

Structure: Structure is the amount of punishment a vehicle • Add High Acceleration tag to vehicle. (2 modifications)
can take before becoming useless. It’s usually equal to the ob-
ject’s Size plus Durability. However, weaker or stronger objects 
may be lower or higher. An object suffering half its Structure Crashes
in damage levies -2 to any rolls to operate it. At three fourths When a vehicle hits a character or another vehicle, a crash 
its Structure in damage, it levies -5 to use. Bashing, lethal, and occurs. There are two basic scenarios for this rule: 
aggravated damage are applied equally to Structure. Structure 
damage requires repair rolls (see p. 103) to fix. Vehicle Hitting Light Object

Speed: This is the vehicle’s safe Speed. This requires about a 
minute of acceleration to reach for many vehicles (or 20 turns in This occurs when a vehicle hits something equal to or less 
combat). The fastest sports cars reach this speed in about 15 seconds than half its Size. The light object suffers one tenth the vehicle’s 
(or five turns). Most vehicles can reach one and a half times their Speed in bashing damage, plus half its Size (rounded down). 
Speed within another minute. However, when operating above nor- The driver must make a Dexterity + Drive roll, factoring in the 
mal Speed, apply the vehicle’s default Dice Modifier as an additional vehicle’s Dice Modifier. Failure means the vehicle takes half the 
penalty to all rolls. While above normal Speed, all rolls to maneuver struck object’s Size plus one tenth its own Speed in damage. 
the vehicle that fail are treated as dramatic failures. Additionally, Any damage that exceeds the vehicle’s Durability is also ap-
turning the vehicle more than 45 degrees in a turn while above plied to passengers and the driver as bashing damage. Effective 
normal Speed requires an instant action maneuvering roll to keep seat belts, air bags, and other safety devices halve this damage. 
the vehicle stable; failure overturns it and counts as a crash. If the driver is actively trying to strike the light object, 

As a general rule, most vehicles gain 5 Speed per turn. make a Dexterity + Drive roll, penalized by Defense if ap-
Vehicles with the High Acceleration tag gain 10 Speed per plicable. Failure means the vehicle fails to hit. Successes are 
turn. Successes on a Dexterity + Drive roll add 5 Speed to the added to the damage caused to the victim, but not to the 
normal acceleration. Remember to apply the vehicle’s Dice driver and passengers. This does require a second Drive roll, 
Modifier to this roll. Vehicles marked as Slow Acceleration however, to resist taking damage. 
cannot benefit from rolls to improve acceleration. 

Example: Suzy has a compact car. On the first turn, it has 5 Vehicle Hitting Heavy Object
Speed. On the second, it has 10 Speed. Since she’s trying to escape This occurs when a vehicle hits something more than half 
from a rampaging wendigo, that’s not enough, so she kicks it into its Size. Both objects suffer one half the other object’s Size 
high gear. Her player rolls Dexterity + Drive – 2 (the car’s Dice (rounded down) plus one tenth the relative Speed in damage. 
Modifier) and gets three successes. That adds another 15 to the Speed, If the two objects are colliding against each other head on or 
so it’s now going at 25 Speed. The wendigo runs faster and faster, so perpendicularly, add their Speeds together for this. If they’re 
she keeps pushing forward. Once she exceeds 90 Speed, all her rolls moving parallel to each other, subtract the lower Speed from 
begin suffering -4 instead of -2, since she’s pushing the vehicle past the higher Speed. If able to react (potentially involving a Wits 
its safe limit. It’ll go up to a potential 135 Speed if she keeps it up. + Composure roll to detect surprise, per p. 88), both drivers 

Modified Vehicles: With mechanical knowhow, charac- can make Dexterity + Drive rolls. Each success removes two 
ters can modify vehicles from their base statistics. A vehicle damage from the amount their vehicle suffers. 
can support a number of modifications equal to twice the Any damage that exceeds an object’s Durability is also 
technician’s Craft dots; each modification requires four applied as bashing damage to the driver and its passengers. 
hours’ work to install. If stressed or lacking sufficient tools, As above, effective seat belts, air bags, and other safety devices 
the Storyteller can require an Intelligence + Crafts roll for halve this damage.
each modification. Potential modifications include: 

99 
Vehicles



Equipment the reverend’s wife at all. Something else took her place. As you 
learn more (and wish you hadn’t), you discover that whatever 

Equipment, tools, and technology help to solve problems. the monster is, it sends and receives radio signals. You guess 

Having the right tool for the job can mean the difference monsters can upgrade to the twenty-first century, too. You think 

between life and death, or, in the Chronicles of Darkness, maybe you can expose it to the congregation if you overload its 

the difference between life and a fate worse than death. This receiver with interference. All you have to do is modify that old 

list is not all inclusive, but features many of the tools that walkie talkie set your dad has in his garage. And pray.

characters in the might have at their disposal. 
Equipment is divided up by the Skills with which they typi- Equipment Types

cally assist. Mental Equipment typically assists with Mental While many characters can gain access to equipment of 
Skills, for example. Additionally, Supernatural Equipment all kinds through purchase, borrowing, blackmail, or theft, 
deals with the paranormal, and may not be suitable for every some prefer (or are forced) to make it themselves. In this 
chronicle. Lastly, Bygones are items that characters cannot context, the word “equipment” refers not only to physical 
procure easily or recreate. They’re unique items that deal objects like weapons and tools, but also anything else that 
with the otherworldly. can be created by a character to help him out with an action 

See p. 268, in Appendix One, for equipment and service he wants to take. If it would offer a bonus to an action, or 
listings. would make actions possible that were previously not, it can 

likely be considered “equipment.”
Availability  Five types of equipment can be built:

and Procurement • Physical Objects: The most common type of equip-
ment. Most of the items found in the Appendix (p. 

The dot cost of a piece of equipment reflects directly on 268) are physical objects, as are weapons and armor. 
the Resources cost if your character wishes to purchase it (or Creative works also fall into this category.
the cost of components, for some things). It also reflects the 
level of Allies or other Social Merit required to find the item, •	 Organizations: A small group of people assembled to 
and the Skill level required to procure it with a single dice roll. address a particular need. A small cult and a cadre of 
For example, if a Party Invitation has Cost •••, a character bodyguards are good examples. Organizations built 
with Larceny •• should not be able to find and steal the item as equipment usually disband after one game session 
without a dice roll, but a character with Politics •••• might unless the player purchases them as Merits afterward.
be able to get one by virtue of saying the right words to the 
right organization. If your character wishes to obtain higher •	 Repositories: Any collection of research materials and 

Availability items with their Skills, it requires a deeper effort. knowledge sources. A library of books, a database, and 
an assortment of security footage all count. A character 

Size, Durability,  doesn’t need to build a repository to benefit from an 
already-existing source; this only reflects the activity 

and Structure of gathering materials for repeated future use. If the 
player purchases the Library Merit for a repository she 

These are guidelines that represent common, standard built, the Merit stacks with the equipment bonus, to 
examples of the items in question. For most items, characters a maximum bonus of five dice.
could procure better examples, at a higher Availability rating. 

•	 Plans: Characters can “build” a plan to orchestrate 

Dice Bonuses a complex encounter with a specific goal involving 
multiple people, like a heist, a raid, or a rescue. If 

Most equipment offers a bonus to dice rolls pertaining to successful, this piece of “equipment” grants its bonus 
its use. Multiple items can influence a given roll, but a roll to everyone involved, but winks out of existence as 
should not receive more than a +5 bonus. soon as the plan definitively succeeds or fails. The 

Storyteller shouldn’t force the players to come up with 
Game Effect every little detail of the plan —abstraction is what the 

dice are for — though if the players are gung ho about 
A character with the item can use these Effects. Any the particulars, that’s fine too.

restrictions, costs, or parameters are listed individually. 
•	 Mystical Equipment: Anything that carries minor 

Building Equipment supernatural potency, such as a circle of protection 
using salt and bone, a protective amulet, or a werewolf 
trap made of silver, counts as mystical equipment. For 

The reverend’s wife isn’t what she seems. She claims to have more rules about using a spirit’s bane in wards and 
been saved by a miracle, but you know better. You know she isn’t other rituals, see p. 138.

100 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



To Roll or Not to Roll
Building equipment should never take more 

than the time between one scene and the next. If it 
can’t reasonably be built in a few hours or less, the 
character needs to acquire it another way. This sys-
tem isn’t meant to cover building a car from scratch 
or getting an entire business off the ground — it’s for 
creating solutions to immediate problems. Building 
truly supernatural relics is beyond the capabilities 
of characters presented in this book.

If the character has plenty of time, isn’t under 
any duress, and has dots in the relevant Skill equal 
to the equipment bonus a standard example of the 
equipment would provide, no roll is necessary. The 
Storyteller simply determines how long it should 
take and it’s done, either with some roleplay within 
a scene, or it’s stated to have happened between 
scenes.

However, if the character is under pressure to get 
the job done before that werewolf picks up her scent, 
or while she’s under attack by enormous slavering 
spiders, the player needs to roll. Likewise, if she’s 
trying to build something that’s beyond her casual 
expertise (i.e., something with an equipment bonus 
greater than her dots in the relevant Skill, or some-
thing the Storyteller determines is too complex to be 
made without a roll) then the dice come out. The 
Storyteller may also call for a roll if the player wants 
to build a more impressive version of the equipment 
that has higher traits than the standard example.

The Build  
Equipment Action

The type of equipment the character builds 
determines which dice pool to use. Most physical 
objects use Wits + Crafts, or Wits + Expression for 
creative works; organizations may use Presence or 
Manipulation + Socialize or Streetwise; repositories 
usually use Intelligence + Academics; and mystical 
equipment usually uses Wits + Occult. Plans are 
a slightly different animal, and require a Wits + 
Composure roll. The Storyteller or player can sug-
gest alternatives if appropriate.

The Build Equipment roll always takes a penalty 
equal to the intended equipment bonus. When 
the equipment is meant to grant other benefits, 
like a new function, an increased trait, or access to 
a resource, each benefit counts as a one-die bonus 
for this purpose, as well as to determine whether 
a player needs to roll in the first place. Weapons 
impose a penalty equal to their weapon modifier, 
and armor imposes a penalty equal to its highest 
armor rating (general or ballistic). As usual, this 
penalty can’t exceed -5.

101 
Building Equipment



The Storyteller may require the use of Resources, warding circles are better suited to Volatile since they cease 
Contacts, or other Merits, or a separate research action, to exist soon after they’re created anyway, while other types 
to reflect putting effort into securing the right materials, can go either way.
contacting the right person, or having enough specialized 
knowledge to build the thing to begin with. This should FRAGILE
only apply when the character wants to build something 
particularly complex or potent and it would enhance the 
drama of the story to do so. The Storyteller shouldn’t use The equipment the character is using to aid his action won’t 
this as a hoop the player must jump through, but rather as last long for some reason, whether because it’s an object put to-
a way of introducing interesting plot elements to an action. gether with duct tape and bubble gum, or because his relationship 
However, when it comes to mystical equipment, these rules with the people involved sours, or because his computer ends up 
don’t replace the need to discover a creature’s bane first; the suffering a blue screen of death and the data is corrupted. A plan 
best a player can do is an equipment bonus or minor benefit may be Fragile because of disrupted communication between the 
without that information. characters, or because of an unexpected hurdle, etc. The equip-

Dice Pool: Varies ment ceases to exist in any usable form after a number of uses 
Action: Instant (Special) equal to its creator’s dots in the Skill used to build it.
While the Build Equipment action is instant and thus Possible Sources: Achieving a failure on a Build 

requires only one roll and one success, the actual game time Equipment roll.
that passes can range from a few minutes to a few hours. It’s Resolution: The equipment falls apart one way or an-
up to the Storyteller how long it takes, though in most cases other. Plans grant one Beat to each player whose character 
the measurement of in-game time doesn’t matter much — is involved when this Condition resolves.
the only important considerations are whether the action Beat: N/A
is finished before something else happens or not, and how 
many other people’s actions occur in the interim. VOLATILE

If a Build action occurs during an action scene, the num-
ber of turns it takes to complete is equal to the penalty the 
roll takes for the equipment bonus and benefits, although it The equipment the character is using to aid his action is 
still only requires one roll. Some Build actions are impossible ready to blow at any moment, figuratively or literally. One 
during action scenes, like convincing a room full of people wrong word, one badly-placed rune, and it’s time to duck and 
to join a character in peaceful protest, or gathering articles cover. A plan may be Volatile because it backfires terribly, 
for a research database. The Storyteller is the final arbiter of or because a Storyteller character betrays the group, etc. Any 
whether a Build action can be completed during an action failure achieved while benefiting from the equipment is auto-
scene or not. matically a dramatic failure. The equipment may continue to 

exist after this Condition is resolved, but if so, its equipment 
Roll Results bonus is reduced by two dice. This can create equipment 

Dramatic Failure: The character fails outright, and suf- penalties if the original bonus was fewer than two dice.
fers some negative consequence. It could be taking damage Possible Sources: Achieving a failure on a Build 
from an explosive reaction, gaining a negative Condition Equipment roll.
like Embarrassing Secret or Leveraged, or leading a su- Resolution: The character suffers a dramatic failure while 
pernatural threat directly to the character’s location. The using the equipment. Plans grant one Beat to each player 
Storyteller should devise a consequence appropriate to the whose character is involved when this Condition resolves.
circumstances. Beat: N/A

Failure: The character successfully builds the equipment, 
but it carries the Fragile or Volatile Condition (see below).

Success: The character successfully builds the equipment Jury Rigging
and anyone can use it as normal. When you’re dangling from a grappling hook 30 feet 

Exceptional Success: The player may choose to add one above the cold concrete with an angry mob of gunmen on 
bonus die or one other benefit to the equipment. Equipment your tail, you don’t have the luxury of time. That Molotov 
bonuses still may not exceed +5. cocktail you’re mixing gets done now or never. That’s where 

jury rigging comes in.
Equipment Conditions Dice Pool: Varies

Action: Instant
Unlike most Conditions, these follow the equipment 

Use the same dice pool you would use to build the equip-
itself. Any character using the flawed equipment suffers this 

ment normally. A Jury Rigging action is a normal instant 
Condition until resolved. The Storyteller and player should 

action that cuts out all the rest of the game time that Build 
work together to decide whether Fragile or Volatile is more 

Equipment usually takes. Every failure while Jury Rigging is 
appropriate to the equipment in question. Generally, or-

a dramatic failure.
ganizations, plans, and ephemeral mystical equipment like 

102 
infernal engines -dramatic systems



The Storyteller may rule that some equipment is too such as a car or a business, with an extended action. In this 
complex to be Jury Rigged. case, the time between rolls and total successes required 
Roll Results should match the effort involved. Building a car may take 

a week between rolls and require 15 total successes, for 
Dramatic Failure: The character fails outright, and suf- example. Storytellers should keep in mind, however, that 

fers some negative consequence. It could be taking damage it’s usually much easier to acquire such equipment in other 
from an explosive reaction, gaining a negative Condition like ways, like stealing or purchasing a car, or using Social 
Embarrassing Secret or Leveraged, or leading a supernatural Maneuvering to convince a potential business partner to 
threat directly to the character’s location. The Storyteller take the bait. As a result, building this kind of equipment 
should devise a consequence appropriate to the circum- with extended actions should only be done if the player 
stances, although in some cases, the natural consequence of really wants to make it from scratch.
the character failing to get himself out of a pinch is enough.

Failure: As dramatic failure.
Success: The character successfully builds the equipment, Examples of Play

but it carries the Fragile or Volatile Condition (see above). Meghan plays Cassidy, who’s trapped in a warehouse with 
Exceptional Success: The character successfully builds something that has huge teeth and red eyes. She stumbles 

the equipment and anyone can use it as normal. across a crate filled with office supplies, and Meghan declares 
that Cassidy wants to jury rig a makeshift chain weapon us-

Repair, Modifications,  ing rubber bands and staplers. Since the chain has a weapon 

and Upgrades modifier of +1 (see “Melee Weapons Chart,” p. 269), the 
Build Equipment roll takes a one-die penalty. Cassidy has 

A character may want to fix or alter a piece of equip- Wits 3 and Crafts 2, so Meghan rolls four dice for the Build 
ment that already exists. These actions usually only apply to action and achieves one success. The Storyteller decides that 
physical objects, though exceptions are possible. Doing so the newly-built “chain” has the Fragile Condition and will 
constitutes making a Build Equipment roll as usual, but the therefore fall apart after just two uses. On Cassidy’s next 
penalty applied equals the difference between the object’s cur- turn, she successfully uses the weapon to grapple the crea-
rent state and the bonus or benefits the player wants to add. ture, and keeps it pinned with the chain while she smashes 
Broken objects are considered to have an equipment bonus a window to get out. Unfortunately, after one more turn of 
of 0. Partially-functional objects may have a bonus only one the creature’s struggles against the chain, the rubber bands 
or two dice lower than their usual bonus. So for instance, if snap and the creature chases Cassidy out of the warehouse 
a computer would normally grant a +2 to research rolls but and down the street. Meghan earns a Beat for resolving the 
won’t start and is therefore currently at a 0, the roll to repair Fragile Condition.
it would suffer a -2. A Storyteller character has been captured by a crime lord, 

To modify or upgrade an object by increasing its traits or and the player characters make plans to rescue him. They 
giving it new functions, simply treat each modification as a decide to build a plan as equipment to help them out, and 
+1 equivalent. A character can replace one function with an- the Storyteller rules that they must roll, since they only have 
other at no penalty — for instance, reversing the function of a two hours before the crime lord makes his move. The play-
walkie talkie to cause interference instead of receiving signals. ers describe a general idea of the plan, with a part for each 

Modifying vehicles is beyond the scope of these rules character to play in the rescue, and the Storyteller decides the 
and uses a different system, detailed on p. 99. plan makes good sense and will grant a +2 to everyone’s rolls 

in execution. The character with the best Wits + Composure 

Taking Your Time pool is the primary actor, and everyone else contributes with 
teamwork. The Build Equipment roll takes a two-die penalty 

A player may choose to build equipment as an extended and, with five dice left over, fails to produce any successes. The 
action rather than making the usual single roll, taking no Storyteller and players agree that the plan carries the Volatile 
built-in penalty to any of the rolls. Instead, the target number Condition, and the rescue proceeds as planned. During the 
of required successes equals the total intended bonus and rescue scene, one of the players fails a roll to sneak past a 
benefits of the equipment + one. Typically, players do this to guard despite using the plan’s two-die equipment bonus, and 
avoid taking large penalties for complex equipment, or when it automatically becomes a dramatic failure. This resolves the 
they have small dice pools to begin with and don’t want to Condition and causes the guard to sound an alarm through-
risk a chance die. The Storyteller determines the time between out the crime lord’s mansion. The players each gain a Beat 
rolls as usual. See “Extended Actions,” p. 70, for further for Volatile’s resolution, and the player who failed her roll 
explanation. Overall success and failure work as normal for gains another for the dramatic failure. The “equipment” that 
the Build Equipment action. was the plan is now done for, and the players must improvise 

The Storyteller may also allow a player to build equip- to face the new complication.
ment that normally lies beyond the scope of this system, 

103 
Building Equipment






Yevgeny is not a superstitious man. He’s not even a Catholic. All the same, the thought of doing this deal 
in St. Ann’s, deconsecrated though it is, makes him nervous in ways he cannot articulate. But this is where 
the client feels comfortable, and Yevgeny is nothing if not a full-service operation. The crate, old and rusted 
and stenciled “СОВЕТСКАЯ АРМИЯ,” squats before the chancel as though to accept absolution.

“Yevgeny?” The voice is a woman’s, young. Yevgeny can’t see her clearly for the shadows of the cames.
“I am. And you are the elephant hunter.”
“Sorry, what now?”
“Firepower like this, you must be hunting elephants. Or planning to overthrow 

a small government.”
“You got me, I’m staging a coup against the East Bollingsworth Board of 

Alderpersons. Can we get on with this?” She tosses the duffel with the 
money into the transept.

“That’s not enough.”
“You didn’t count it.”
“It’s what we agreed on?”
“Of course.”
Yevgeny shrugs. “Then it’s not enough. Extra complications. 

The price has gone up.” 
“That’s not going to work for me, Yevgeny. I’m on a timetable 

here.”
“For your Glorious People’s Revolution of East Bollingsworth?”
“Look, I get that you’ve got this whole Solntsevskaya Bratva 

thing going, and it’s working for you. But I need this now, and 
I need it for the price we agreed on.”

“And yet.”
Yevgeny’s smile says “terribly sorry for the inconve-

nience, but you’re alone and I have the automatic weapon, 
so what can you do?” Hers says “don’t make me do this,” but 
Yevgeny can’t see it for the shadows of the cames.

“And yet. I have to confess, I thought something 
like this might happen. That’s why I bought a 
friend.”

Ximena whistles, low and liquid, 
and the shadows rush away from 
her and fly shrieking at Yevgeny 
with his grandmother’s face.



Black Threads: 
Storytelling

The group of people who get together to tell stories set in the Chronicles of 
Darkness using this book and others are players. At any time, players can agree to 
have one player take on the role of Storyteller to guide the story and take on special 
tasks to guide the group. A Storyteller is still a player, though her responsibilities 
to the group are different. Some groups find it ideal to stick with one Storyteller 
throughout the course of a chronicle, and give up some of their choices as players 
to experience more surprises and twists. That’s a great way to play. Some groups 
choose to rotate Storyteller responsibilities, keeping most or all of the story se-
crets either on the table for everyone to use, or undefined until they come up in 
play, holding on to more of their out-of-character choices and sharing the load of 
Storyteller responsibilities. Some groups give certain storylines to specific players, 
letting that player hold Storyteller responsibilities for that storyline, but allowing 
them to have a character in the game so long as they can only engage with other 
storylines. This is tricky, and requires that everyone works together and cooperates, 
but is often worth the effort. 

When using any of these methods, players can look at Storytelling less as a 
special and unique position for one person, and more as a list of things to do that 
players can handle singularly, in a group, or by taking turns. But what are those 
responsibilities, exactly? Here is a sample list, though your group may need more 

For why do you  or fewer assignments than those covered here. It will also help if, as a group, you 
despise my fear decide on any additional responsibilities you’d like to parcel out to one or more 

and curse my pride? players in the group. 

But I am she who  
exists in all fears 
and strength in Invisible Hands:  

trembling. Storytelling Responsibilities
I am she who is weak, Provide Space to Play: This is often a Storyteller’s responsibility, but should 

and I am well in a it be? This is a good thing to go over with the group to help ease the burden on 
pleasant place. any one specific player. Leaving all the details of when and where to play to only 
I am senseless  one player can lead to burnout, fast. 
and I am wise. Food and Drink: If you’re gaming for any real period of time, are players re-

sponsible for their own food and drink? Is everyone pitching in to provide for the 
-The Thunder,  group? Again, these logistical details shouldn’t be taken for granted, and shouldn’t 
Perfect Mind be left entirely to the game’s host or a central Storyteller. 

Establishing Setting and Theme: It can be tricky to do this alone, though 
traditionally it’s expected that a single Storyteller is totally responsible for this. 
However, figuring out the setting and theme for your Chronicles of Darkness 
games can be a communal experience, a conversation between players. Try start-
ing with a piece of media, an existential question, or an urban legend you want to 
explore. Alternately, start with a strong “what if,” such as, “What if the covered 
bridge downtown really was haunted?” or, “What would it look like if Wall Street 
was actually home to roaming packs of werewolves?” 

Interesting Characters:  Within the group, it’s everyone’s in the group respon-
sibility to bring interesting characters to the game that will also suit the settings 
and creative themes of the game. Sometimes that means a player has to back off 

106 
black threads-storytelling



on a character concept that will be too difficult for the other Providing Regalia: Having character portraits, maps of 
characters to deal with. Other times, it will mean backing off the city, journal entries, and physical representations of clues 
on a concept that makes the other players uncomfortable. or puzzles can do a lot for a game, and providing regalia is 
Typically, the final say as to what does and doesn’t fit at some next-level Storytelling if you’re not used to it. Printouts, 
the table is in the hands of a central Storyteller. However, fake newspaper articles, and so on can be exciting and provide 
as a shared responsibility, consider a blind vote or an open additional sensory input. However, this doesn’t have to fall 
discussion if any characters seem like they’d be more disrup- entirely on a single Storyteller, especially if players are sharing 
tive than challenging. Destroying the themes and vibe of a storylines or managing Storyteller characters. If you bring 
game, and making players uncomfortable out of character, a real puzzle box to a game session and put it on the table, 
is not actually subversive; everyone needs to work together simply saying, “Let me know if you manage to open that out 
to find better ways to create in-game disquiet and make the of character,” then, one way or another, players will find a 
game interesting. way to bring that puzzle box into the game’s story.

Cheerlead for the Player Characters: Too often, having a 
separate and authoritative singular game master role creates Spines 
an assumption that a Storyteller is somehow the enemy of 
the characters, and the antagonist of the players. In fact, any What holds your scene upright? What gives you the frame 
player acting as a Storyteller should be the characters’ biggest and basic shape on which to hang the moments of roleplay, 
fan. This position doesn’t mean characters should always get action, and exploration? What makes up the skeleton of your 
what they want and never have anything bad happen to them. chronicle, which holds the meat and muscle of your stories? 
On the contrary, if the Storyteller is the number-one fan of Simply put, it’s your scene framing. The scenes them-
these characters, she wants to see the characters challenged so selves, how they play out, and what your characters do is the 
they can grow. Since character growth is tied to Conditions meat and skin and connective tissue, but how you frame 
and Beats, for them to grow they must be put in difficult situ- scenes helps to hold the rest of that up. Weak scene framing 
ations. Think of challenging these characters, on some level, means that the meat of your story hangs limp and feels dis-
as nurturing them rather than attempting to destroy them. connected from moment to moment. With a strong, flexible, 

Storyteller Character Management: Depending on how healthy spine, though, you can build and grow your chronicle. 
you develop your chronicle, whether you use a chronicle Pitching the Scene: First, you need to pitch the scene to 
starter like Missing Person, below, or find some other way the table. “Pitching” makes it sound like you’re giving players 
to populate your chronicle, you will have characters that are the choice of which scenes to follow through and what they 
not player characters. These are characters with dim spot- want to explore next. That’s correct, and in fact, whenever 
lights, whose agency is often focused on propping up the possible, invite players to pitch scenes when you’re stalled or 
player characters’ stories. If the group is sharing Storytelling they’re brimming with ideas. To pitch, you want to suggest a 
responsibilities, Storyteller characters may be left up for grabs, place, a storyline to follow, Storyteller characters who can be 
letting any player bring them into play in a specific scene. involved or at least sought out, and which player characters 
In that case, any secrets they hold or motivations they have should be in the scene to begin with. Once everyone agrees 
should be on the table, though not abused as out-of-character on the basics, you can start outlining the scene in a little 
knowledge. The best way to reflect these open secrets and more detail. 
keep the characters consistent is to give them Aspirations, Central Conflict or Theme: This is optional, but it’s a 
so if a player is temporarily taking control, they get a better helpful step you can use whenever possible. As well as de-
idea of how to motivate the character. Even if a group is scribing the who, what, and where of a scene, you can also 
using a single, dedicated Storyteller, she might assign some frame it in terms of why. You can do this directly by saying 
players Storyteller characters as side characters to manage something like “think in terms of lust and envy here,” or you 
and motivate, which can help keep the world feeling alive can do it subtly through your descriptions, music you play 
and populated. lightly in the background, or other symbolic representations 

Storylines: As mentioned before, a single Storyteller can of the vibe you’re trying to create. It’s a great idea to quickly 
hold all the secrets and present all of the challenges in a jot down what everyone wants from the scene, perhaps related 
storyline to considerable success. Conversely, these storylines to their Aspirations, and check in at the end of the scene to 
can be broken up between any number of players or left as figure out who got what they wanted and who didn’t. What 
open plot kits that any player can pick up and use at any time. will that mean for the next scene?

Scene Framing: You can read more on scene framing later Lights and Camera: Set your scene. If you know where, 
in this chapter. Storytellers are often handed all the respon- who, and maybe a few other things, you can dress your scene 
sibility when it comes to “Where do we go next?” and even with a few key details to suit the theme and mood. Describe 
“What do we see?” Of course, pitching scenes can be put on it like the blurb in a screenplay if you like, with camera angles 
rotation, with players taking turns deciding not just where and lighting suggestions. Players eat these details up. The idea 
the story should move next physically, but tagging which is that the physical aspects of a scene should never be left 
storylines they want to follow up on or which characters’ as a blank, white room. There is no such thing as a blank, 
struggles they want to explore next. white room, unless characters are literally in a blank, white 

107 
invisible hands-storytelling responsibilities



room, in which case you focus in on the sweat on people’s scene-capping aspects can be a great springboard into the 
brows, the sound of heavy breathing, the glare of the lights, next scene. Also, never fear using phrases like ”meanwhile, 
the subtle scent of fear-tinged sweat, and so on. across town in the central banking tower...” or ”unbeknownst 

In Medias Res: This is a classic fiction technique where to the characters, trouble was coming in the form of...” A 
the scene starts in the middle of the action. good scene, framed well on the front and back end, makes 

You enter the room, the musky smell of pot and sex fill- every scene strong and helps your chronicle feel complete 
ing your nose, and you know this is the right place by the and constantly in motion.
strangely-familiar occult symbol on the wall. Suddenly, the 
door behind you slams open and someone in black body Pulled Muscles
armor shouts, “Hands in the air, this is the police!” 

Afterwards, you can pan back, examining how characters When you pull a muscle, it hurts like hell, but when it 
got to that exact moment. You can also observe the scene for heals the muscle is stronger. When you fail a roll, it can suck 
clues and missed nuances, as you would a still from a movie. like hell, but it sets a character up to be stronger. 
Then, let the characters react. Here’s the math: players using a dice pool of three will 

Similarly, you can cut a scene off in a way that seems roll one success for their character most of the time in a 
premature, only to resolve it in a new, calmer scene. straightforward roll. Rolls are very rarely straightforward, and 

“Over my dead mother’s rotting corpse!” your enemy failure happens. Characters, player characters, and Storyteller 
shouts, as he and his thugs pull out Uzis … and scene. It’s characters will fail, even must fail, in order to progress a story 
three hours later now, which one of you is injured, which forward. That’s as true in a Chronicles of Darkness game as 
one of you is fine, and who among you killed a guy? Would it is in fiction. In many ways, players should celebrate failure, 
you like to argue in character, unpacking the scene that was as it brings them one step closer to even greater success.
just skipped?

Connective Tissue: To complete a solid framework, you Why Should Characters Fail?
can cap off a scene in the same way you framed where it began. For strictly mechanical reasons, characters need to fail 
Check in with characters who either never came onstage or because failure is tied into the Conditions and Beat systems. 
left early, ask players where exactly their character is going It is therefore necessary for characters to fail to advance sys-
next, or describe the details they missed in the scene or an temically. Conditions have a built-in buy in as many of them 
action from a Storyteller character that foreshadows trouble are resolved by players choosing to fail a roll before rolling 
yet to come. Because this is connective tissue, any one of these it in order to end the Condition and take a Beat. That’s key 

108 
black threads-storytelling



here, as players should be given plenty of options to choose This is a good thing, and as a Storyteller you shouldn’t 
for their characters to fail. They should have control over it feel disappointment or frustration. The story follows the 
in some way, and remember that their character’s failure is characters, not the other way around, and if you can keep 
empowering in more than one way. that in mind, there are a lot of behind-the-curtain tricks that 

you and the other players can utilize to make the whole thing 
It’s in the Story feel more cohesive, while avoiding losing any good material 

you’ve prepared ahead of time. 
To some players, “a sloppy series of endless tragedies 

which compound on each other until, ultimately, every-
one dies alone” is an ideal Chronicles of Darkness game. Schrödinger’s Character
However, that’s not for everyone. Of course, on the other If you’ve planned for a confrontation with a Storyteller 
end, competence porn where characters are always awesome character to happen at the bar where the characters are sup-
and never suffer real setbacks is not in keeping with any posed to hang out, but which they’ve avoided for the third 
Chronicles of Darkness game. A good story will appeal to a game session in a row, move the damned confrontation. 
majority of players; let the players who naturally want to run Shuffle your Storyteller characters around if you need to, 
their characters into the ground do so. And the players who move clues or story details into your players’ paths, rather 
are afraid of failure? Talk to them. Take their favorite movie, than worrying about the fact that you can’t force them into 
and examine the series of conflicts and setbacks the heroic the right place for the right plot points. Any player can sug-
characters experience and draw parallels with how you’d like gest moves like this; it doesn’t have to be a Storyteller secret. 
the pacing of your chronicle to go. It’s a good idea for you Also, you can drop it out in the open for everyone to act 
to be familiar with several types of plot pacing, anyway. The on. “Guys, Garry the Knife is coming for you, where does 
best fiction puts the characters through a series of setbacks he surprise you?” 
contrasted with rising action, so your chronicle should, too.

Aspiration Inspiration
Succeed at a Cost Characters who sit on their thumbs aren’t exciting, tragic, 

There are times when failure would really drag down a or drawn into intrigue. If you can’t seem to motivate your 
game, but the dice say that’s what happened. Sometimes when characters to explore the various channels of the mysteries 
a Storyteller says, ”Well, just roll to see what happens,” and you’ve built on their own, then tie the whole thing to their 
what happens is an inexplicable failure, you can always opt Aspirations. You can do this by suggesting new Aspirations 
instead for a success but with consequences attached. This is when they’ve satisfied old ones, asking, “Hey, did you guys ever 
also a technique to use when your player appears crestfallen get around to what happened to Sara? Is that loose end bugging 
when the dice hit the table and you may lose engagement your character at all? Sounds like a good Aspiration.” It’s okay 
from them. “Okay, the punch lands, but...,” “Yeah, she’s to be direct. It’s always okay to be direct. You can also reverse 
actually pretty into your sales pitch, but....” Give the player engineer this, by finding a way to tie existing Aspirations to the 
what she was shooting for, but tie it to something that’s going path you’d like to guide your players toward. You don’t ever 
to sting down the road. want to force them to deal with a story they aren’t interested in, 

because you never know why a player wants to avoid a storyline. 
Pick Your Poison It might be harmless, or it might be because you’ve created a 

story element they don’t want to deal with for personal reasons. 
It is always better to give your players more choices rather 

This is why giving them a choice to follow their Aspirations is 
than fewer, because more chances to choose are more chances 

better than demanding or steamrolling them into following 
for drama and intrigue. A failed dice roll often feels like the 

your plotline. This is particularly important in a Chronicles 
end of a player’s choices, and carries with it a sense of final-

of Darkness game, which can go to dark places very quickly. 
ity. “Well, we didn’t find the clue we need, guess we’ll go 
do something else.” That’s not intrigue. Instead of a simple 
failure, give the players a choice, a difficult decision, one that Recycle the Waste
affects the story going forward. For example, “You find the You know that powerful letter you prepared for a dead 
clue, but it implicates only you,” or, “You don’t find the clue Storyteller character to deliver as a ghost to your player 
and your case is at a dead end, but you’ve discovered a new, characters? Well, it turns out they prevented his death, so 
possibly-unrelated crime to investigate.” that leaves the idea dead instead, right? Not really! After all, 

someone’s got to die sooner or later. Just change the word-

No Meat Wasted ing on the letter and have it delivered by a different lost soul 
entirely. Nothing’s wasted!

Sometimes, players get distracted and don’t perfectly fol-
low a Storyteller’s leads. Players often don’t take the obvious Conditions and Failing Dramatically
path, distracted by interesting Storyteller characters, miscom-
munication about clues and details, or character exploration Both negative Conditions and Dramatic Failures are ways 
on which a Storyteller didn’t count. for players to fail triumphantly, and for characters to grow 

109 
invisible hands-storytelling responsibilities



dramatically. They’re also tools for you to use to guide play- story that spills out from it. The players do. Anyone can 
ers to lost or unexamined material. Is the character terribly drag aspects of the situation or Storyteller characters from 
Frightened? Does that fear drive them from the current scene the story kit into appropriate scenes to get things moving 
to somewhere more ideal for your lost material? You bet it or explore the situation in more detail. If there are deeper 
can! And since the character will earn a Beat in the process secrets within the story kit, such as who is responsible for 
of satisfying their Condition or their Dramatic Failure, they the haunting or what’s really motivating the preacher, you 
feel empowered instead of handheld into the next scene. should let them be decided on by the players in play, rather 
That’s a win-win. than be predetermined. 

Your Exquisite Corpse Prick the Skin
It’s an old game, where a player writes down a sentence in Let me suggest you aim for disquiet. Don’t try to frighten 

a story or draws part of an illustration, hides all but the last your players or disgust them and gross them out. Aim instead 
word or bottommost portion of the picture, and the paper for disquiet, that strange place just left of normal. Set the 
is passed to the next player to fill in. After everyone’s had a situation slightly askew or odd. Make the situation mildly 
turn, the whole thing is revealed and everyone has a good uncomfortable, rather than horrific, and let the players take 
laugh at the story or illustration produced, a bit at a time, their personal horror to the level in which they want to invest. 
while all were blind to the whole. This is another opportunity to let players opt in and partici-

Because the Chronicles of Darkness uses open, commu- pate with the darker themes with which they are comfortable. 
nal storytelling it’s difficult to perfectly simulate a game of However, it also produces more successful, genuine horror 
Exquisite Corpse, but using a story kit gets you part of the than splatterpunk and snuff storytelling could ever hope to. 
way there. They’re great to minimize the amount of heavy Gore isn’t scary. It can gross a person out, when applied 
lifting put in by a single Storyteller, or to give players who judiciously, and that can be a valuable tool in the Storyteller’s 
don’t normally take on Storyteller responsibilities a way to (or player’s) toolbox, but it’s not a replacement for real dread, 
ease into them. Story kits also help manage games that are and if you pile it on too thick, filling your scenes with vomit 
asynchronous online or in live-action roleplaying, where one and pus and arterial spray, it loses its punch. You’ll feel a 
Storyteller isn’t quite enough to keep everyone entertained. need to escalate the grossout factor higher and higher, and 

It works like this: before too long you’ve lost the dread, become immune to the 
Decide on a situation that exists, a conflict between rival grotesque, and made the subversive mundane.

gangs, a haunted house, a local political faction turning No one wants that.
extremist, a religious leader turning to violence in the name It’s better, maybe, to leave things unseen. Leave evidence 
of his faith, or maybe an infection of a rare, supernatural of malicious and gruesome deeds, suggest the chaos of the 
disease. Once you’ve decided what the situation is, write it dark, tease at the face of the Devil, and let your players’ 
down. A paragraph will do. Follow it up with a paragraph imaginations fill in the rest. Your players are better at fright-
describing why the characters should care; do it as a series of ening themselves than you ever will be, and while everyone 
six or so bullet points, if you like. You can either target a few might put forward their darkest fears to suggest directions in 
characters specifically, or keep it general and let the players which to go to make the story scary, you can’t do it as well 
opt their characters in. Shoot for an open-ended scenario. as their lizard brains can fill in the blanks. Leave room for 

Next, describe three principal Storyteller characters that the unexplained; describe the spot where the shadow falls, 
are either affecting or being affected by the situation. They and let your players fill in those shadows with their own 
may be the cause of it, they may be exacerbating it, or they may demons, instead. Aim for disquiet, aim for just off center, 
be victims of the situation. Describe what they are doing now aim for subtle and growing dread, and horror will creep into 
and, more importantly, what they might do to escalate the the places you’ve made for it. 
situation and make it worse for the players. Then, give these Don’t slash the story’s throat open to bleed out in gushes; 
key Storyteller characters Attributes and Skills just as you prick it, then ask, “Why does it sting? What is that creepy 
would player characters. Give them three strong Aspirations, feeling just under the skin? Probably nothing, right?”
with at least one relating to what they’re doing now, and one 
relating to how they’re going to make things worse. 

Finally, write two or three general characters who might be Missing Persons: 
pulled into the story. For instance, cops called to investigate non-
sense at the haunted house, protesters, gangsters, or what have you. Creating Your Setting
Give these tertiary characters basic stats, focusing on dice pools 
rather than specific Skills and Attributes. Give them a short- and According to the FBI, in 2013 close to 63,000 people went 
long-term Aspiration. Leave room for a third Aspiration after missing in the U.S. alone. That means that, by U.S. popula-
they’ve been used in play and given a proper name. tion at the time, one in every 500 or so people went missing 

Print out your story kit as a handout for all your players. that year. That number is not likely to decrease, especially 
In short, the Storyteller doesn’t run the situation or the in the Chronicles of Darkness, where monsters are real and 

110 
black threads-storytelling



breathing down our necks – when they bother to breathe, sure everyone has most of the questions answered by the time 
anyway. Also, that number only accounts for reported missing you’re done so that the map is fleshed out, and everyone has 
persons, when, in fact, plenty of people go missing and have hooks into the world in which your chronicle is set.
no one who notices or cares enough to report it. Do you know 
500 people? In your school, your extended social group and The Missing Person 
family? Your town? Your neighborhood?

Using the Missing Persons system, you’re going to build Someone is missing. Who is it? In order for there to be 
your setting up around a missing persons case that happens a person missing, you need to determine who the person is 
in your characters’ lives, or at least in their area. Someone is and at least some of the circumstances surrounding their 
gone and you, as a group, are going to examine your charac- disappearance. A name is a good place to start or, if you 
ters and their setting by the light of police flashlights, to a can, a character picture or portrait helps the players start to 
soundtrack of probing questions. string ideas together. Is she young or old? Is he rich or poor? 

The missing person does not need to be the focus, or even Does it make sense they’re gone; are they the sort who runs 
an important factor, in your story. So if you’ve already got off from time to time, or is their disappearance entirely out 
an idea of the stories you want to create in your Chronicles of the ordinary? Can anyone account for any part of it? Is 
of Darkness game, don’t dismiss using the missing person to there a stack of clues and witnesses to sort through, or is this 
build your setting. He can be a major mystery to unravel, or missing person only barely noticed, a statistic, more than a 
a tragic statistic that is of note only because you’re thinking person gone from their community?
about it, and then gone and forgotten as soon as the real 
story takes off. Your missing person may be a major player Putting it on Paper  
or a background element, depending on how the story goes. After the Storyteller puts a name, and maybe an image, 
It’s important for you to stay flexible about this, of course, as of the missing person on the table, players can start to help 
players may naturally chase any mystery put in front of them. define that person. Jot down about a sentence per player as 
If you expect it’s just a background element, tell them so, or they discuss the details of the disappearance. Try to keep all 
else end it quickly and sadly, or quickly and mysteriously, statements open ended, leaving room for conflicting evidence 
depending on the tone of your Chronicles of Darkness game. and the ambiguity of reality. “She’s really popular” is better 

What You’ll Need: In order to create a missing person than “everyone likes her.” Popularity can represent a lot 
to get your chronicle started you’ll need players, character of different traits and reactions, whereas determining how 
sheets, and basic ideas for the kinds of characters most of exactly people feel about her is limiting. “Police found a lot 
your players want to play. You’ll also need a big sheet of paper of blood at the crime scene” is better than “the fact that her 
everyone can write on. You’ll be making a sort of map on blood was everywhere points to homicide” because again, 
this paper. A whiteboard also works. If you don’t have either it’s vague. If you can, avoid passive statements, too. If you’re 
of these, a pile of notecards will do, which you can write on about to put down a sentence that starts with “there is” or 
and arrange. As the Storyteller, you’re also going to need to “there are,” try to reword it. Having people or things doing 
determine the scope of your game. Is it focused entirely in something is a lot punchier than having things be done to 
one high school that all the characters attend? Is it a whole someone, and so, using the example above, “police found a 
urban sprawl? Or is it just one small, rural community and lot of blood” is better than “there was a lot of blood.” 
the truck stop at the edge of town? Determining the rough Talk the players through disagreements or conflicting 
scale of your chronicle will help your players sketch out this statements. Conflicting ideas can actually contribute to 
map. Visual representations of that scale are also helpful; verisimilitude. If you think about anyone real in your life, 
for example, a city map or the blueprints of an apartment does everyone in your life share that opinion? For every 
complex. A list of names, covering a diverse range of genders, “funny guy” in your life, there are bound to be people who 
ethnicities, and ages can be helpful as well, so that no one don’t get the jokes or aren’t amused by the behavior, and so 
gets stuck on naming Storyteller characters. Random pictures it’s as easy to put down “hilarious” for the missing person 
of people for inspiration can also be useful tools. as it is to put down “not very funny.” This is where direct 

How You Do It: While the players are creating their and punchy statements really help. “The ladies think he’s a 
characters, ask them the questions about the missing person riot” says a lot more than “some people find him amusing,” 
below. Each player will have to answer most of the questions, and leaves room for “he doesn’t have many friends” without 
and add to the map that you’re creating together. This map one canceling out the other. Instead, they paint a stronger, 
will provide places, Storyteller characters, and relationships clearer picture of the sort of guy he is based only on how 
to start your chronicle out holistically, so everyone needs to those two seemingly-contradictory ideas bounce off each 
participate. The less the players have predetermined about other. Of course, as with all other steps in the Missing Person 
their character, the better this will work, unless the player is chronicle starter, you and your players don’t have to sit down 
already aware of how Missing Person works, and are eager and fill out each statement about the missing person right 
to get involved. You don’t have to answer these questions in now. They can come back and add their own thoughts as the 
any particular order, either. Jump around from step to step map develops. Just leave some blank space for new statements 
and player to player as it feels natural and organic. Just make as they develop. 

111 
missing persons-creating your setting



Try to avoid using more than one statement from 
each player. You don’t want to write out a huge biogra-
phy of the missing person; you simply want a framework 
to connect to and some tantalizing ideas to build from.

What the Questions Really Answer 
Why a disappearance and not a murder? A missing 

person leaves more questions in the mind than a dead 
body. After all, a body tells you “this person is dead, 
their story is at an end.” With a missing person, though, 
ambiguity of mood and tone means  you can do a lot 
more with it as a story. A missing person is a story 
with, potentially, no ending. The story might act as a 
background element: sad, hopeless, and flavoring the 
rest of your chronicle. Conversely, it might be a tense 
emergency as the missing person is sick, needs medica-
tion, is a child, or any other ticking time bomb about 
to go off at any moment. 

Crime Scenes
From where is she missing? Where did you see him 

last, and when? What spaces did you share with the 
missing person? Did you and the missing person go to 
the same coffee shop every Sunday at the same time 
for the last three months, and it’s only now that he’s 
missing that you’ve even noticed how frequently you saw 
one another? Did you see her last in your apartment, 
as she threw on her jacket and told you to never call 
her again? Where did you both go, but never actually 
crossed paths? The missing person lived in the same 
reality as your characters, whether in their town, block, 
or school. Whatever the scope of your chronicle, this 
missing person lived within it just as your characters 
do, and you’re better off anchoring all the characters 
in real, shared spaces. 

Putting it on Paper
At some point while you’re building your chronicle 

map, each player should put down a location that will 
matter to the story. Start out with the idea that these 
locations are all tied to the missing person, but they 
must also each somehow tie to the player characters. 
This might be a place the missing person was terrified 
of, and your character needs to go daily, for example, 
or a place where you used to live together. 

These locations should also act as go-to locations 
when setting a scene or shaking up the storyline. 
Any one of these locations can be a great place for 
the Storyteller to trigger more action or sow seeds for 
character-driven plot as well. Sometimes simply starting 
a scene by saying, “Meanwhile, in the graveyard, some-
thing is stirring, something unnamed and forgotten,” 
can get things going. These set-piece locations should 
have a name, a one-sentence description, and a sentence 
describing both how the player character relates to 

112 
black threads-storytelling



them and how the missing person once did. To strengthen “Everyone blames me for what happened to him” are useful 
the mood of any specific location, instead of a descriptive because they leave room for the player to explore how right 
sentence, players might suggest a musical motif that would fit or wrong those opinions are. They also suggest elements of 
just as well. This is an excellent technique to anchor a place personality for their characters, as well as how the outside 
in the players’ minds, especially if you play the song quietly world observes the character. The ways in which the outside 
any time a scene starts in the location. world views the disappearance will be handled more thor-

oughly in a later section.
What the Questions Really Answer

Characters standing around in empty, white rooms in What the Questions Really Answer
generic buildings, on stock streets in general towns can end This may end up being the step that is the most difficult 
up feeling dry and distant. If you focus in and dress the set for some players, as they are asked to open their character 
with memories, moods, themes, and especially details, it up to a communal worldbuilding step that not every player 
becomes real and vital and can inform the story in ways you is used to. Encourage them gently, but remember that not 
may not have expected. Vivid settings can help the Storyteller everyone has to contribute to every single step. It’s one thing 
hang on to their passion for the chronicle and prevent the to decide as a group, “Hey, this person exists and is gone, 
Storyteller from getting burned out. When players are debat- “but it takes it to the next level to say, “This person is gone, 
ing whether or not they should take that Dramatic Failure, or and my character is somehow tied to this potential tragedy.” 
how their Condition should manifest in this scene, having a You are asking that player to be accountable, in some way, 
good sense of the mood and details can inspire and encour- regarding what happens to characters that are outside the 
age them. A rooftop is not the same thing as the grubby, players’ control. After all, a player can’t spend Experiences 
rust-covered rooftop of an aging theater. The latter tells the to raise the combat stats of their character’s girlfriend, so 
player that things can fall apart, the structure may not hold, getting attached means the player might be stung should 
and hell, yes you should consider having your character fall something happen to her. That’s why it’s important that this 
off of something when she fails. step is optional, and not a hard requirement. 

If a player wants to get involved but doesn’t want their 

Implication character directly involved with the missing person, that’s 
okay. It’s worthwhile to take a step back and look at the social 

How do you know the missing person? Was he a good ecology of the characters. Maybe she wouldn’t deal with a 
friend, or a lover? Was she a child or dependent? Is this missing drug dealer, because she’s on the straight and narrow, 
disappearance keenly felt, or is the character somehow un- but is the fact that it’s a drug dealer who’s gone missing a 
aware of what is disconnected and broken in their web of relief to or a burden on her beloved brother, a drug addict? 
relationships? Is the character knowingly responsible for the 
disappearance, or the catalyst for it? Is she the cause without 
knowing it? They might have been complete strangers, but Community
because of the rule of seven degrees of separation, no life Who cares about the disappearance? Who doesn’t care 
within your chronicle exists without touching others. This about the disappearance? Are there posters everywhere, 
chronicle starter reflects the connections we see and don’t candlelight vigils? Has the media gotten involved, putting 
see, so while characters may not realize their direct ties to the the missing person’s face up on TV screens all over the city? 
missing person, the players should be aware of them. If the missing person has family, what are they doing about 

the disappearance, and what are they telling people about 
Putting it on Paper the person who has vanished? A family and community that 

says “Oh, well, no one is surprised he’s gone,” assigns a tone 
On your map, as spokes radiating outward, possibly from 

of indifference to the local population that the characters 
the locations described in the Crime Scene step, write each 

may end up taking advantage of, or become victims to. A 
character’s name down. On the spoke, write a sentence de-

close-knit community can be a community that knows each 
scribing either the direct relationship between the character 

other’s secrets and keeps them, or one that spreads them 
and the missing person, or the effect their disappearance has 

around. A disenfranchised community that minds its own 
on the character’s life, even if it’s on a level understood by 

business won’t be there when someone calls out for help. If 
the players and Storyteller, but not the character. If a player 

a character shouts “Help, fire,” who will respond? 
would like her character be implicated in the disappearance, 
that’s great, but try to keep this very open ended. Consider 
that “I’m pretty sure I killed her, but the body went missing Putting it on Paper
so I kept quiet” is much more interesting and useful than “I This step can and should happen sporadically over the 
killed her and hid the body.” Leave the mystery of the disap- course of the rest of the chronicle mapping. Draw spokes 
pearance in, even in the case of direct involvement. Whenever out from the missing person’s name, and draw clouds, like 
possible, attach opinions and biases to these statements so thought bubbles in a comic. In these, with no specific attribu-
they can stay ambiguous. “I think I made her run away,” or tion, write some rumors surrounding both the person and 

113 
missing persons-creating your setting



the disappearance. These thought bubbles reflect popular Putting it on Paper
opinion and local myth surrounding the events. They should 
be specific, but don’t need to be anchored to specific charac- As a group, decide what the major authority is in this situ-
ters. “Everyone knows he was kind of a drunk” is acceptable. ation. You could put down two if you like, perhaps a powerful 
“The family couldn’t give two shits about her” is great, too. criminal syndicate that works in opposition to legal authorities, 
Don’t worry yet about what the police or other real authori- each with their own influence on the situation. Adding more 
ties are doing about the situation; that’s a later step. In this than that gets complicated, and it’s generally better to let any 
situation, you’re just putting down things “everyone knows” complexity grow organically within the course of the game than 
without closely examining who constitutes “everyone.” These to try to frontload the chronicle with several competing powers. 
rumors don’t have to be true, though they may or may not This chronicle starter is about a missing person, after all, and not 
have a grain of truth to them, and the ones that are true a turf war. A turf war may also be happening, but keep it simple. 
may be the strangest of the bunch, depending on the story Next, allow each player to draw a line from the central 
of your chronicle. Even as you’re considering the opinions authority or authorities on which the group has agreed to 
of the characters directly connected to the missing person, various people or locations on the map. On the lines, write 
consider the outsider view rather than what the characters out dates and facts that depict the authorities’ actions without 
may actually be experiencing. So, if one of the player char- saying much about their motivations for these actions. These 
acters is implicated by a rumor, position the statement from details should be grounded in the setting’s reality.
outside of the character. Weaker language like “he seemed” For Example: 
or “maybe she” is perfectly acceptable here. Try to keep them Location: Armed police investigators were seen investi-
short for the sake of space, but if you need to invent a quick gating the abandoned chicken processing plant a week after 
urban legend about the rumor, just put a title down and put the disappearance.
it on a note off to the side, or something similar. Person of Interest: No one from the police has asked 

the missing person’s ex-husband any questions about his 
What the Questions Really Answer disappearance. 

In a real, living community, be it tightly knit or loose and Player Character: Members of the local crime family 
isolationist, everyone has opinions about the things they see cornered the character and asked her some leading questions 
around them. Perhaps they keep these thoughts entirely to about the missing person, then left in a hurry.
themselves, share them only with close family, or mumble Location: Neither the cops nor the gang will go to this 
them to anyone who will listen. No matter how open or place for different reasons, so its truths remain unknown 
private they keep their thoughts about their environment to them. 
and neighbors, many people couch these opinions in rumor 
and attribute the beliefs to “everyone” to avoid personal ac- What the Questions Really Answer
countability. When a person hears rumors from the unknown In some ways, this step helps outline what the characters 
“everyone,” they are most likely to only forward the rumors will and won’t be able to get away with as they go through 
that align with their own existing beliefs. Thus, rumors are the chronicle. Defining the in-game authorities and, more 
transformed, adjusted, and refined to fit the communal importantly, suggesting how they operate and what they care 
zeitgeist of the neighborhood population. Of course, as in a about, will guide the Storyteller and the players as to where 
game of whisper-down-the-lane, or telephone, some strange they should focus the hands of justice. (Legal or illegal, most 
ideas can sneak into popular opinion, making it hard to tell authorities have their own codes of justice.) This step helps 
the difference between random hiccups in the chain of ideas to avoid questions like “Why did the cops get to this area so 
and the truly strange Chronicles of Darkness truths. quickly when I fired a gun, but when I called 911 last week, 

the line was disconnected?” This is because it forces everyone 
Authorities at the table to consider what motivates the powers that be. 

Do the police care? What questions do they ask you 
about the missing person? What don’t they bother asking? People of Interest
Who has the real power and influence here when it comes Who else knew the missing person? Who were her friends, 
to looking into this disappearance? If the police aren’t yet acquaintances, and family? What about his enemies and 
involved, why? Is the case federal for some reason? Have the those who meant him harm? These witnesses, suspects, and 
feds chased the local cops away from sensitive matters and community figures touched the life of the missing person, 
taken the whole thing entirely out of the hands of those who but also have connections to the player characters. Are their 
live with and around the missing person? Is it a matter of a bonds to the missing person strong and their relationships to 
local authority, like the staff of a university or principal of the player characters weak? Are they the only real connection 
a powerful private school, keeping things hushed up until between the player characters and the missing person? How 
they’ve managed damage control? Is this chronicle set in a do they relate to the locations important to the chronicle, to 
prison, with a warden hiding not just this disappearance, figures of authority, and to the rumor mill as it grinds along?
but many like it?

114 
black threads-storytelling



Putting it on Paper like to your players, here’s some media that handles not just 
a death or missing person, but also the lives of the people 

This step can also happen at any point; as soon as the around that person who is, otherwise, gone. Missing Person, 
players need someone concrete around whom to anchor a as a chronicle starter, focuses on the vacuum a gone or dead 
place or idea, create a person of interest. These can be lov- person leaves in the lives of those around them, and these 
ers, siblings, or even the old ladies who watch everything the pieces of media reflect that idea in a few different ways. 
characters do from a window across the street. Consider the variety of tones you can bring to this chronicle 

Each player should volunteer at least one person of starter with the ideas below.
interest while creating this chronicle starter. Write down Stand by Me, movie, or “The Body”, short story by 
the person of interest’s name on the map, and put a square Stephen King. The Body, as well as the movie that was based 
around it. Consider this character’s relationship to the rest of on it, are both prime examples of using a missing persons 
the information on the map. Draw a line from the person of case as a jumping-off point for a much deeper narrative. In 
interest to any player character other than the initial player’s the story, a group of boys travel into the wilderness outside 
own. On that line, the player of the second character should their small town in search of a “dead kid” of whom they’d 
write down a one-sentence description of their relation- heard rumors among the other local children. It’s a powerful 
ship to the person of interest. The player who volunteered slice-of-life story about boys, who are on the cusp of being 
the person of interest should also draw a line between the young men, dealing with their demons. The titular body is 
person of interest and the missing person. She can write a important, yes, but as a catalyst for growth rather than as its 
statement of their relationship as it appears to the outside own event in the boys’ lives.
world, perhaps related to her character, perhaps not. As a Twin Peaks, TV. If your characters are likely to actually 
final step, she should draw a dotted line from the person of investigate the missing persons case, Twin Peaks is an interest-
interest to either a location, a rumor, an authority, or even ing twist on the classic, more technical, police procedural. 
another person of interest, symbolizing another connection. It focuses much more on the lives of the people around the 
There’s no need for a description here; the dotted line is just dead girl, and examines what people thought of her as a 
an implied connection that everyone can play off of later. person, versus who she actually was. It’s a strange story, too, 

What the Questions Answer one not outside of the realms of possibility for a Chronicles 
of Darkness game.

People of interest are not the entire population of your Pretty Little Liars, TV.  This modern teen drama, cen-
chronicle, obviously, but as they spring up, they become tered on a missing persons case, exemplifies the idea that a 
representatives of the population. As they are written, they relatively small town can be absolutely bursting with secrets. 
may start off as stereotypes. Build out from that, adding Though the series’ primary mystery is “What happened to 
depth and focus. Once the chronicle map is completed, a Alison DiLaurentis?” a multitude of revelations, romantic 
Storyteller can and should make simple character sheets for entanglements, and plot twists occur throughout the series, 
the people of interest. At least make sure to make note of casting suspicion on seemingly every character at some point 
their names, whatever is written about them on the map, or another. 
and give them each at least one strong Aspiration just as you The Killing (U.S. or Dutch version), TV. Like Twin Peaks, 
would a player character. this show centers on a criminal investigation, but the lives of 

the investigators and the people involved are very intimate 

Media and Inspiration and intense. The pacing is slow, as one case takes up the entire 
length of the series, so it matches the pacing of a tabletop 

Just in case you need a little inspiration, or perhaps want game a bit better than a typical one-and-done episode of a 
to send along some ideas of what a missing persons case is standard police procedural.

115 
missing persons-creating your setting






“You wanna see something really scary?”
That was what he asked me, and I laughed. I’d seen that movie 

when I was a kid, too.
“No, seriously,” he persisted. “I think it’s called Troxler fading or 

something. It’s this thing where, if you stare at a mirror in a dimly-lit 
room for long enough, you start to hallucinate. Like, you see yourself 
turn into a monster, or you see your dead parents or something.”

“My parents are still alive, jackass.”
“Fuck you, you know what I mean. So, you wanna see something 

really scary?”
I sighed. When Alan got like this, you couldn’t shut him up. 

“Fine. Hold my beer. And don’t drink it.” I heaved my ass off 
the couch, kicked the empty pizza boxes to one side, and 
braved the hallway to our cramped bathroom.

“Don’t blink!” Alan’s voice followed me into the 
bathroom. “If you blink it stops working!”

Yeah, yeah. Thanks, Alan. I pushed the door 
closed until just a faint sliver of light was coming 
through, gripped the edges of the sink to steady 
myself, and stared into my own eyes.

Oh yeah. Spoooooooky. Those dried specks of 
toothpaste foam were the terror of men every-
where. Why the hell did I let Alan talk me into this?

“See anything yet?”
“This is stupid!”
“Trust me, it’s worth it!”
After a minute, my eyes started to sting a 

little. Stupid no-blinking rule. Huh, you know, my 
vision was starting to go a little swimmy, and it kind 
of did look like my face was a little off. My eyes looked 
bigger. I grinned at myself, and holy shit that grin split my 
reflection’s face right to the ears. I flinched a little, blinking 
the sting out of my eyes — and my reflection just kept grin-
ning at me. Its teeth were each the size of my thumbnail.

“Holy shit!”
“Is it working?” From the living room, the sharp creak of 

someone getting off the couch.
My reflection placed a hand on the inside of the glass, and 

the mirror bowed outward, turning the bathroom behind me 
into a vast cavern, a cathedral of porcelain and mildew.

I screamed then and stumbled back, nearly tripping over 
the bathtub. I tore my eyes away from the thing in the mir-
ror, and then Alan was there. His face told me everything I 
needed to know.

“Alan?” I was blinking back tears now.
“She said they needed more people to see them. To let them in. 

Sorry, man.”
As my world turned to nothing more than the sound of shatter-

ing glass, the last thing that crossed my mind was: I thought blinking 
made it stop working.



Horrors  
and Wonders:  
Antagonists

Horror comes in canisters with labels written in ancient languages that scratch 
at the mind like hidden claws. It comes in smiles that hide empty hearts and empty 
souls. It comes in shadows behind the dumpster, in handshakes in broad daylight, 
and in self-fulfilling nightmares. People in the Chronicles of Darkness can readily 
find horror in slavering beasts and primeval predators, but they can find it in the 
everyday atrocities that humans visit upon each other, too. No law of nature puts 
abomination in nicely classified boxes, easy to avoid if you just walk on the right 
side of the street and always lock your doors at night. It could be sitting across 
from you on the subway. It could be the subway. It could even be you.

This chapter scratches the surface of the myriad horrors and wonders that 
populate the world. It gives the Storyteller characters and story hooks to use in 
her games, and simplifies her job by providing traits and rules that she can pick 
up and play with as is, or adapt to fit the needs of her game.

The first section is about plain old human Antagonists. Not every encounter 
the player characters have throws them into the deep end of the dangerously 
supernatural. The Storyteller can use the traits given in this section to represent 
any number of non-supernatural enemy types that the player characters might run 
into, whether they decide to fight, talk, or just to follow these people around to 

 “Now is the dramatic see what trouble they’re up to.
moment of fate, The second section presents rules that govern Ephemera, beings that live on 

Watson, when you hear the fringes of the material world and interact with it in unearthly ways. They range 
a step upon the stair from ghosts of the dead to spirits of Shadow and angels of the God-Machine, to 
which is walking into even weirder things that can’t be easily defined. This section presents rules for 

your life, and you know how to create ephemeral beings as Storyteller characters, including the strange 
not whether for good or laws they must follow, special powers they have, called Numina, and Conditions 

ill.” they cause or require for working their mystical devilry, like possessing people. It 
also explains how player characters can interact with these beings, including rules 

Sir Arthur  for summoning, warding, and binding.
Conan Doyle, The third section talks about Horrors — physical monsters that share the world 

The Hound of the with humanity and plague it with all manner of gruesome terrors. It presents a 
Baskervilles system for building these creatures as major antagonists and details the sorts of 

powers they might possess. It also provides advice to the Storyteller on how and 
when to use such creatures, and what kinds of roles they might play in the story. 
Then, it gives examples the Storyteller can use in her games, or as inspiration for 
Horrors of her own devising.

Antagonists
Not every foe has hellish powers and an otherworldly agenda. Sometimes, the 

obstacle that stands between you and your goals is just a person like you, doing 
his job, standing up for what he believes in, or taking the gullible for everything 
they’re worth. This section presents traits for non-supernatural opponents that the 
Storyteller can use to populate her world and pit against the player characters in a 
variety of situations. Some are best suited to fighting, some to social maneuvering, 
and others to different kinds of challenges.

118 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



The characters presented here are nameless archetypes, but Speed: 12
the Storyteller can use them to represent any kind of character Doubles as: Game hunter, street gangster, secret 
he needs for his game, whether it’s a minor antagonist that police agent, hired assassin.
only turns up once or a recurring villain that has not only a 
name but an extensive history with the player characters. The 
Storyteller should feel free to alter any of these traits if he needs EXCITABLE  
to; they’re given as examples and templates for ease of use. MUNITIONS EXPERT

Traits “You ever thought about what you’re holding when you hold a 
grenade? It’s the lives of everybody in a fifty-foot radius, right in your 

All dice pools provided here are complete pools, with hand. Kinda gets you off, doesn’t it?”
Attributes already added in for the Storyteller’s convenience. Description: She shakes her leg whenever she sits down. 
Only use the individual Attributes when the Storyteller needs She talks quickly and wears camo. She either takes her job 
to roll something that’s not already included. Assume that way too seriously, or not nearly seriously enough. You can’t be-
if it’s not represented by the dice pools here, the character is lieve someone put her in charge of munitions, but she knows 
untrained in the Skill. everything there is to know about gunpowder, fire bombs, 

Initiative Modifiers given here do not include penalties and exactly how many people die every year in explosions.
for weapons.

The Willpower trait given here is an average for a character Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 3, Resolve 2, 
of that type, but Storytellers should feel free to modify this Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 2, Presence 2, 
based on the importance of the character. Generally, one-off, Manipulation 1, Composure 2
nameless characters have no Willpower to spend in a given 
scene, while minor named characters have between 1 and 3. General Dice Pools: Molotov Cocktails 6, 

Classified Information 5, Duck and Cover 6
Each character presented here is an example, and serves as a 

template for other similar archetypes that can use the same traits. Combat Dice Pools: Close-Quarters Combat 5, 
For instance, the traits given here for the Cocky Mob Hitman Guns 6, Explosives 8
could also be used for a member of a secret police agency, or a Initiative Modifier: +6
hardened street gangster. A list of ways to reskin the character can Defense: 7
be found at the bottom of each template, under “Doubles as.” Health: 7

COCKY MOB HITMAN Willpower: 1
Size: 5
Speed: 12

“I knocked off five of your friends before you finished 
wiping your ass, so I’d think twice about opening that door if Doubles as: Radical terrorist, FBI bomb disposal 
I were you. If you play nice, tell you what, I’ll even come to technician, demolitions operative.
your funeral.”

Description: He’s not here to chitchat. He’s here to kill FANATICAL  
you, plain and simple. He won’t waste time and he can’t be CULT LEADER
deterred. His eyes are dark and he seems to find satisfaction 
in what he’s confident are the last seconds of your life. You 
hope you can prove him wrong. “My friends, have faith! They couldn’t stop us with words, they 

couldn’t stop us with guns. Our sacred destiny transcends mere 

Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 4, Resolve 2, earthly means. They will never stop us!”

Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 2, Presence 2, Description: He worships something you can only find in 
Manipulation 2, Composure 3 dusty leather tomes. He doesn’t look like much, but whenever 

he opens his mouth, you listen. His followers take bullets for 
General Dice Pools: Taunting the Mark 4, him with smiles on their faces, and he smiles, too. You fear 
Creepy Stalker 5, Breaking and Entering 5 that one day it’ll be you taking a bullet for him. While smiling.
Combat Dice Pools: Knockout Blows 6, Guns 8, 
Concealed Blades 7 Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 2, Resolve 4, 
Initiative Modifier: +7 Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3, Presence 3, 
Defense: 7 Manipulation 3, Composure 3

Health: 7 General Dice Pools: Pushing Your Buttons 6, 
Can’t Be Swayed 7, Friends Everywhere 5

Willpower: 2 Combat Dice Pools: Handguns 3, Knives 4
Size: 5 Initiative Modifier: +5

119 
Antagonists



Defense: 3 Combat Dice Pools: Grappling 6, Guns 7, 
Health: 8 Baton 5

Willpower: 3 Initiative Modifier: +6

Size: 5 Defense: 6
Speed: 9 Health: 8
Doubles as: Crooked politician, freedom fighter, Willpower: 2
popular general, zealous preacher, powerful Size: 5
crimelord. Speed: 12

Doubles as: Jaded soldier, nightclub bouncer, 
HARD-NOSED well-paid bodyguard, security guard, ex-convict.

BEAT COP
OBSESSED  

“Come out with your hands up! Or hell, don’t — I’ve been itching DEMON CULTIST
to try out my new piece.”

Description: This police officer has seen the worst hu-
manity has to offer, and now she sees it everywhere. Nothing “You think you know what’s really out there? Think again. 

gets past her cold, steely glare. She’s been on the force for Every day I learn a new name for something the world isn’t ready 

longer than you’ve been alive. In her mind, you’re already to see yet.”

guilty, and she’d love to make you squeal like a rusty cell door. Description: She’s an expert in unspeakable horrors. She 
looks like she hasn’t slept or eaten in a week, but she could 

Attributes: answer any question you pose about the things that prey on 
 Intelligence 2, Wits 3, Resolve 3, 

Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3, Presence 2, humanity. She won’t, though, not until you have her trust. 
Manipulation 2, Composure 2 And you don’t like what you might have to do to win it.

General Dice Pools: Nowhere to Run 6, Cop 
Talk 4, Won’t Back Down 3 Attributes: Intelligence 4, Wits 2, Resolve 3, 

Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2, Presence 2, 
Manipulation 3, Composure 3

120 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



General Dice Pools: Obscure Lore 7, Right Tool pointed at you. You’re in its territory and it plans to rip you 
for the Job 5, Evasive Answers 5 to pieces with all its friends. It can track you wherever you 
Combat Dice Pools: Concealed Blades 3, run, and it’s faster than you.
Handguns 3
Initiative Modifier: +5 Attributes: Intelligence 1, Wits 4, Resolve 3, 

Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3, Presence 3, 
Defense: 3 Manipulation 0, Composure 1
Health: 7 General Dice Pools: Born Survivor 7, Marathon 
Willpower: 1 Runner 7, Aggressive Growl 5
Size: 5 Combat Dice Pools: Bite 6, Tackle 6
Speed: 9 Initiative Modifier: +5
Doubles as: Mad scientist, retired monster Defense: 7
hunter, suspicious professor, occult librarian. Health: 7

Willpower: 0
SLICK  Size: 4

PROFESSIONAL GRIFTER Speed: 12
Doubles as: K-9 hound, wild animal, swarm of 

“So sorry to bother you, ma’am, but can I interest you in the vermin, genetic experiment.
deal of a lifetime? Yes, of course you can see my paperwork. All you 
have to do is sign here, and here.”

Description: You can’t be sure anything she’s said is true, WORLD-WEARY  
but then, you can’t be sure it’s false either. She has all the PRIVATE EYE
right licenses and says all the right things. She smiles easily 
and shakes your hand with such a sincere, winning attitude; “I know, I know. I should keep my nose out of it and my 
can you really accuse her of lying? mouth shut. My mother always said I had no common sense. I 

guess she was right.”
Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 3, Resolve 2, Description: Somehow he picked up on your involvement 
Strength 1, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2, Presence 4, and he just won’t let it go. You keep thinking you spot him out 
Manipulation 4, Composure 4 of the corner of your eye, wearing that battered old hat and 
General Dice Pools: Smooth Talk 7, Sleight of watching you. No matter what you do, you can’t shake him. 
Hand 6, Getting the Hell Out of Dodge 4 He acts like he knows everything already. Maybe he’s right.
Combat Dice Pools: Handguns 4, Grappling 3
Initiative Modifier: +7 Attributes: Intelligence 4, Wits 3, Resolve 3, 

Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3, Presence 1, 
Defense: 5 Manipulation 3, Composure 4
Health: 7 General Dice Pools: On Your Tail 8, Knows a 
Willpower: 1 Guy 6, Paranoid Bastard 7
Size: 5 Combat Dice Pools: Concealed Firearms 5, 
Speed: 9 Barroom Brawling 4

Doubles as: Black market salesman, corrupt law- Initiative Modifier: +6
yer, casino house dealer. Defense: 4

Health: 8
TRAINED  Willpower: 3

GUARD DOG Size: 5
Speed: 9

“*bark! bark!* Grrrrr...” Doubles as: Police force detective, conspiracy 
Description: It’s a Doberman Pinscher, a Rottweiler, theorist, nosy journalist, tabloid writer.

or a German Shepherd. Its teeth are bared and its ears are 

121 
Antagonists



Ephemeral Beings than others (those so weak they can’t Manifest at all are es-
sentially impotent and don’t interact with humans), but all 

Humanity shares the world with innumerable entities, require certain appropriate conditions before they can use 

lurking invisible and intangible in a Twilight state, waiting for these powers.

the right conditions to arise. When an area becomes tainted An ephemeral being wanting to shift into physical form or 

by the touch of death, when the wall between the world and inhabit an object, animal or person requires the area, item or 

the terrible, hungry Shadow of animist spirits grows thin, character it is Manifesting into to have been prepared for its 

when people begin to see the gears of the God-Machine, the arrival. Ghosts require Anchors — places, objects and people 

ghosts, spirits and angels can manifest, interact, and further that are linked to their living days and reinforce their failing 

their alien goals. All of them want something from human- identities. Angels can only appear in the world when enough 

ity — memories, obedience, emotion… even their bodies. Infrastructure has been laid out by the God-Machine. Spirits 

Sometimes, humanity fights back. need the emotional resonance of the area or victim-host to 
match their own. The more powerful the Manifestation, the 

Invisible Incursions stronger the Condition needed. The most powerful physi-
cal forms and tightly-held victims are the result of careful 

The physical world borders on multiple realms, each husbandry by the Manifesting being, slowly building up the 
with its own peculiar laws. The inhabitants of those realms necessary Condition by leveraging whatever Manifestation 
aren’t material beings, and although many are intelligent they can produce at first. Unless Conditions are very strong, 
and self-aware, their thoughts are alien to humans. Mortal or the possessing entity extremely powerful, a human being 
investigators almost never see the worlds these beings come falling victim to a possession is first urged to follow the entity’s 
from with their own eyes, for which they should be grate- wishes instead of his own, then forced to do its bidding, and 
ful. Everything occultists have been able to learn about the only then physically mutated into a bizarre amalgamation of 
animistic Shadow World and the chthonian deep of the natural being and supernatural power. 
Underworld paints both realms as deadly and teeming with Summoning or exorcising entities from locations or 
“natives.” The enigmatic servant angels of the God-Machine Possession, then, is a matter of creating or destroying the 
might come from such a realm, or might be created within appropriate setting for the creature, preferably near a place 
the world by the processes and Infrastructure they serve. No where it can cross over from or to its native realm. Most en-
one knows for sure. tities waste away, as though starving, outside of the needed 

Whether the beings are fleeing the dangers of their home Conditions, so breaking those Conditions is a surefire way of 
realm, avoiding banishment to it, summoned from their forcing the being to abandon its attempt at Manifestation and 
home by mortal occultists, sent as agents by more power- send it fleeing toward either a way “home” or another appro-
ful members of their own kind, or forced to cross over to priate vessel. Cultists wanting to summon entities attempt to 
complete a mission by the God-Machine, most encounters either ritually create appropriate Conditions near a crossing 
between characters and ephemeral beings in a God-Machine point, or offer up a suitable vessel in the hope that the right 
chronicle take place in the physical world, where characters sort of ephemeral being will accept the gift. In the case of 
have the home field advantage. angels, most participants in a “summoning” never realize the 

significance of their actions — Infrastructure is gradually built 

Manifestation  as the God-Machine moves pawns and machinery around like 
game pieces until an angel is brought forth.

and Possession
Instead of bodies formed of flesh and bone, ephemeral Ghosts

beings are made up of a sort of spiritual matter called ephem- Echoes of the Dead
era, which comes in several varieties. These substances are 

When human beings die, especially in a sudden or 
both invisible and intangible to anything not comprised of 

traumatic fashion, they sometimes leave parts of themselves 
the same sort of ephemera — ghosts can see and touch one 

behind. Ranging from broken, animated afterimages, un-
another, but are invisible to most living people and don’t 

able to do anything but reenact their death, to intelligent, 
interact with solid objects or even other ephemeral beings 

malevolent, once-human spirits with power over whatever 
that aren’t ghosts. Spirits happily float through walls and pass 

kind of calamity killed them, the world teems with vast num-
through ghosts without even noticing them, but are incapable 

bers of the restless dead. More ghosts exist than any other 
of interacting with people without help.

supernatural creature, but the truly powerful, independent 
Almost every ephemeral being has the ability to Manifest, 

specters of legend are rare.
to make its presence known and affect the physical world, 

The majority of ghosts are poor at influencing the world, 
in ways ranging from remaining invisible but using powers, 

trapped in their insubstantial state and unable to even 
to appearing as insubstantial but visible images, to possess-

Manifest, noticed only as a strange chill or eerie vibe if the 
ing a victim, sending his soul into hibernation and warping 

living sense them at all. Ghosts are drawn to places and people 
his body to suit their own uses. Some are more skilled at it 

122 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



that they had emotional connections to in life — these anchor 
the ghost in the world and allow those with enough power to 
Manifest, whereupon they carry out whatever mad urges they 
still feel and attempt, in their broken state, to further the goals 
they left undone in life. Ghosts feed on Essence, a spiritual 
energy created by the memories and emotions that build up 
in their Anchors and are fed directly to them when they are 
remembered by the living. Ghosts that lose their Anchors and 
can’t transfer their attachment fade from the world, passing 
over to a dread realm filled with all the orphaned Ghosts 
that have gone before. This realm has many names in occult 
writings: Tartarus, the Great Below, the Land of the Dead, 
the Dominions, or simply the Underworld.

The living seldom visit the Underworld, though mediums 
and death-obsessed mystery cults all over the world teach that 
gateways to it are more common than supposed. Its doors 
exist in the same Twilight state as ghosts themselves, invisible 
and unnoticed by the living. Tales of living occultists who 
learned the right places and the proper ceremonies to open 
the gates of death describe the Underworld as a chthonian 
hell of passageways, tunnels, and caverns, filled with desperate 
ghosts that lost their grip on the world. The Underworld sus-
tains the dead, allowing them more freedom to move and act 
than the living world, but it also imprisons them. Once there, 
though, ghosts may increase in power and influence, evolving 
beyond the image of the person they were into twisted rulers 
of dead kingdoms, or sponsors and advocates of particular 
forms of death. If summoned back to the physical world or 
allowed to escape the Underworld by chance conditions, a 
ghost that has spent centuries growing stronger can wreak 
havoc until exorcised.  

Spirits
Warped Reflections

Animist religions describe the world as being full of 
spirits, with every object, animal and place hiding a spirit 
within it. They’re partly right; everything in the world apart 
from humans, even transitory events and strong emotions, 
does cast a spiritual reflection, but all spirits, apart from 
the cunning or a powerful few, are confined to a world of 
their own. Separated from the physical world by a barrier 
known to knowledgeable occultists as the Gauntlet, the 
spirit — or Shadow — world is a murky reflection of the 
physical. Its geography is (mostly) the same as the world, 
but places appear twisted to reflect their inner truth rather 
than looking exactly the same. Everywhere, spirits war on 
each other for survival.

Spirits come into being alongside the thing of which 
they’re a reflection, but are dormant, barely living, tiny lumps 
of ephemera at first. As well as creating new spirits, actions in 
the physical world, and any emotions associated with them, 
create Essence in the physical world, some of which crosses 
over into the Shadow. If enough Essence is created around an 
embryonic spirit, it rouses into activity. By absorbing Essence, 
the spirit remains active. By consuming other spirits, it merges 

123 
Ephemeral Beings



those spirits into itself and grows larger and more powerful. 
As spirits become more powerful, they become less pure as 
reflections of their origins and more thematic in nature. For 
example, the spirit of a single owl grows by consuming other Other Entities
owl spirits. As it consumes spirits of night, hunting, the prey The ghosts, spirits, and angels presented here 
its owl eats, and other owl spirits, the spirit subtly changes. By aren’t the only ephemeral entities to exist. The vari-
the time it is an independent, thinking being that no longer ous Chronicles of Darkness games have used the 
follows the physical creature that created it around, it has spirit rules this section provides to represent many 
warped into an exaggerated spirit of silent nocturnal hunting. different beings, from the inhabitants of an astral 
The Essence it consumes also has an effect — an owl spirit world visited by mages, to demonic owls made of 
evolving in an urban area feeds on different Essence than one smoke with a strange connection to vampires. 
in the countryside, and its appearance is colored by its diet. Just as ghosts, spirits, and angels are slightly dif-

When mortal characters encounter spirits, something ferent, adapting these beings to use the rules here 
has gone wrong. Some spirits are capable of using their pow- involves setting out both where they follow these 
ers through the Gauntlet and, as their self-awareness grows rules and where they don’t. Future books may de-
with power, decide to create food sources for themselves by tail ephemeral entities particular to those games.
influencing what sort of spirits and Essence will be created 
around them. The true culprit behind an unusual pattern 
of domestic murders, for example, might be a murder spirit 
using its abilities to escalate arguments into homicides. with hydraulics, gears, and hissing machines surrounding 

The spirits that mortal investigators encounter in the the angels while keeping them fed with Essence. They’re 
physical world are refugees and escapees, those that crossed always guarded.
the Gauntlet to flee the constant risk of being killed and Being essentially tools designed by an intelligent, if unknow-
absorbed by larger spirits. They constantly strive to main- able, creator to fulfill specific functions, angels are far more 
tain their Essence, desperate to avoid returning to their specialized than spirits or ghosts. They’re also usually more 
own world. Without an easy source of Essence, spirits must subtle and able to go unnoticed even when Manifested, but are 
anchor themselves like ghosts, finding an object or person extremely single minded, aiming to complete the task they’ve 
that reflects their nature and tying their ephemeral bodies been sent for and then vanish. The God-Machine sends angels 
to them. The spirit remains intangible — and is often actu- to make adjustments to Infrastructure and its plans when some-
ally “inside” the host — but is safe from starvation as long as thing has gone wrong and the gears can’t self-correct. Angels 
the host generates enough Essence to feed it. By influenc- hunt down individuals who have failed to die at the proper 
ing the host, or humans interacting with a material host, to time, acquire replacements for lynchpins that have unexpectedly 
more closely reflect its nature, the spirit gets a ready supply failed, and make corrections to the flow of causality, carefully 
of Essence and may move on to more permanent forms of setting up minor events (the closing of a door, the drop of a 
possession. Many items thought of as having wills of their pen, a sudden distracting sound at just the right time) which will 
own, or as being cursed, actually house spirits. have increasingly-large repercussions. The Conditions needed 

to bring an angel into the world, though, are much more com-

Angels plicated than a ghost’s anchors or a spirit’s essence, requiring 
layers of Infrastructure, precise timing, and occult maneuvers 

Functions of the God-Machine which are barely understood. Occult literature is filled with 
Unlike ghosts, who feed by being remembered and angel-summoning rites, but they’re mostly useless — if mortal 

struggle to maintain their grip on the world, and spirits who cultists participate in calling an angel to a mission, it will be 
flee their own Darwinian hell to carve a foothold in mate- because they are themselves part of the Infrastructure it needs.
rial reality, angels are both temporary visitors to the mortal 
realm and its only true “natives” among ephemeral beings. 
The God-Machine isn’t some far-off thing lurking in a dis- Game Systems
tant dimension; it’s here, in the material world, built from Ghosts, spirits and angels share a broad set of rules, with 
mechanisms hidden from sight by guile and magic. When minor variations to cover situations such as spirits reaching 
cultists summon a spirit, it journeys from the Shadow. When across the Gauntlet. 
an angel is needed, the God-Machine is as likely to build the 
angel right there as direct an existing one to journey to the The State of Twilight
site. When angels are reused, they spend the downtime “rest-
ing,” dormant, in storage facilities hidden by the very deepest Unless they Manifest or use a power to appear, ephemeral 
Infrastructure. Sometimes, cultists and prying outsiders who beings remain in their insubstantial state when in the mate-
witness the gears catch glimpses of these facilities — cavern- rial world. This state is described as “Twilight.” To beings in 
ous chambers, folded neatly into impossible spaces, filled Twilight, physical objects appear pale and semitransparent, 

124 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



light sources are dimmed and sounds distorted as though 
underwater. Twilight isn’t an actual place, though, more a 
description of how ephemera interacts — or fails to interact Supernatural Tolerance
— with material reality.

When in Twilight, only items, creatures, and phenomena Just as ephemeral beings possess Rank, many 
that are also in Twilight and comprised of the same kind of supernatural creatures in the Chronicles of 
ephemera can touch an ephemeral being. Attacks simply pass Darkness have “power level” traits of their own, 
through the Twilit being, and solid concrete and steel are no ranging from 1 to 10 dots. They all have slightly 

different rules, described in the appropriate 
more hindrance than fog. rulebooks, but all share one quality; they are 

The exception is ghost structures. Destroyed objects — added to Resistance Attributes when contesting 
everything from a pen to a building — appear as after-images the dice pools of many supernatural powers. 
in Twilight, formed of the same ephemera as ghosts. These The various supernatural traits, including Rank, 
spiritual structures and items fade away on a timescale that are interchangeable for this purpose. When a 
depends on how strongly they’re remembered. Famous struc- Numen in this chapter calls for “Supernatural 
tures, or even obscure ones that are loved and thought about Tolerance” to be added to resistance, that’s 
frequently after they’re destroyed, can last decades, solid and what it means.
substantial only to ghosts. Example: A vampire attempting to quell an angry, 

If no ghostly structures get in the way, ephemeral beings in Manifested Angel attempts to use a hypnotic 
Twilight can move at a walking pace in any direction. Gravity gaze. The power’s description in Vampire: 
has no sway, though Twilit beings can only truly “fly” if it’s The Requiem calls for the activation dice pool 
appropriate for their form — most hug the material terrain. to be contested by “Resolve + Blood Potency,” 
A ghost could walk up the side of a tower block, for example, Blood Potency being the vampiric Supernatural 
but couldn’t then float through midair to the next tower. Tolerance trait. The vampire’s dice pool is penal-

Some occultists and supernatural creatures practice Astral ized by the Spirit’s Resistance + Rank instead.
Projection, which allows a character to leave her body behind Example: A ghost attempts to use the Awe 
and explore the world in an invisible form. These projected Numen (p. 136) on the first of two interlopers in 
selves are technically in Twilight, but lack even ephemeral the now-abandoned house it owned in life. The 
bodies so aren’t solid even to one another. Numen is contested by Presence + Composure + 

Supernatural Tolerance, but the intruder is a mortal 
Ephemeral Traits and doesn’t have a Supernatural Tolerance trait, 

so just rolls the two Attributes. When the ghost at-
Ephemeral beings aren’t alive the way humans are alive. tempts to use the power on the second intruder the 

They aren’t biological creatures, and don’t have the divides next turn, though, it discovers that she is actually a 
between body, soul, and mind mortals and once-mortal su- mage; she adds Gnosis (the mage Tolerance trait) 
pernatural beings possess. In game terms, ephemeral beings to her contesting dice pool. 
are represented by simplified game traits.

Rank
All ephemeral beings have dots in an Advantage called 

Rank, which notes how self-aware and powerful the entity 

Rank
Rank* Trait Limits ** Attribute Dots Maximum Essence Numina
• 5 dots 5-8 10 1-3
•• 7 dots 9-14 15 3-5
••• 9 dots 15-25 20 5-7
•••• 12 dots 26-35 25 7-9
••••• 15 dots 36-45 50 9-11

* Each Rank levies a -1 modifier on attempts to forcibly bind that entity and acts as a Supernatural Tolerance trait.
** These represent permanent dots, not temporarily-boosted ones.

125 
Game Systems



is. Rank technically ranges from 1 to 10 dots, but entities 
with more than Rank ••••• are so alien they can’t support 
themselves in the Conditions lesser beings use, and can only Gauntlet Strength
be brought into the world by story- and chronicle-defining The strength of the wall between the world and its 
maneuvers, conjunctions, and events. The Lords of the Dead, Shadow depends mostly on how many people are 
Gods of Shadow, and the mighty archangels are out of the present in the area. The paradox of why human 
scope of the Storytelling system. If they appear at all, they activity pushes the Shadow away when it also 
do so as plot devices. creates vast quantities of emotionally-resonant 

Rank is used to determine the maximum ratings in other Essence is a mystery. If the spirits know, they aren’t 
game traits an ephemeral being can have, as described in a telling, but the Gauntlet breaks more easily away 
table below, along with how many dots of Attributes the entity from civilization. 
can have. All ephemeral beings have the ability to sense the Whenever a spirit attempts to cross between the 
relative Rank of other entities, and may attempt to conceal material world and the Shadow, uses Influence 
their own Rank by succeeding in a contested Finesse roll. or Manifestation to reach across, feeds from the 
Success means that the entity appears to be of the same Rank material world’s Essence while still being in the 
as the being sensing the relative Rank. Shadow, or uses a Reaching Manifestation (see 

Ghosts can’t increase Rank outside of the Underworld, p. 130), the dice pool is penalized by a number of 
and come into existence as either Rank 1 or 2 depending on dice according to the following chart.
how much self-awareness they have. Nonsapient “recording”-
type ghosts are Rank 1, while those that retain most of their  Strength  
living memories are Rank 2. Ghosts summoned back from Location Modifier
the Underworld, however, may be of any Rank. Dense urban areas -3

Spirits and Angels run the full range of Ranks, depending City suburbs, towns -2
on how old and successful a spirit is or how much importance 
the God-Machine places upon an angel. Small towns, villages -1

Wilderness, countryside 0
Essence Locus +2

A combination of food, oxygen, and wealth, Essence 
fuels ephemeral entities’ powers, sustains their insubstantial A Locus is a location in which the Shadow world 
bodies, and allows them to continue existing. As a game is especially close. Spirits don’t need the Reaching 
trait, Essence resembles Willpower in that each entity has a Manifestation Effect to use their powers across the 
permanent maximum Essence rating and an equal number Gauntlet at a locus, attempts to cross over are at +2 
of Essence points it can spend to achieve effects. Maximum dice, and spirits whose nature matches the Locus’ 
Essence is determined by Rank. Resonant Condition heal at twice the normal rate.

Entities can use Essence in the following ways:
• Ephemeral beings must spend a point of Essence per 

day to remain active. If they have run out of Essence, they fall 
into hibernation until something happens to regain at least boosting takes a turn and they can only boost a single 
1 point, which can then be spent on returning to activity. Attribute in a turn.
Such dormancy is dangerous — the entity remains in Twilight Entities can sense sources of Essence appropriate for their 
and can be destroyed if it loses all Corpus and Essence at the needs up to a mile away. Spirits can use this sense through 
same time. When spirits enter hibernation, they are pushed the Gauntlet. The Seek Numen (p. 138) increases this range.
back across the Gauntlet into the Shadow. Ghosts that don’t 
have any anchors remaining are similarly forced into the •	 Ephemeral beings regain 1 point of Essence per day that 
Underworld. Angels remain dormant wherever they were. they are in proximity to any Condition relating to them — 

• ghosts are sustained by staying near their anchors, spirits 
	 Ephemeral beings outside of a suitable Condition in the Shadow eke out an existence by feeding across the 

bleed one point of Essence per hour. The Influence Gauntlet, and angels are fed by Infrastructure.
and Manifestation Conditions starting on p. 132 state 
whether they protect from Essence bleed for different •	 Ephemeral beings can attempt to steal Essence from 
types of ephemeral being. Entities that run out of beings of the same type — ghosts from ghosts, spirits 
Essence due to bleed suffer a single point of lethal from spirits and so on. The attacking entity rolls Power 
damage and enter hibernation. + Finesse, contested by the victim’s Power + Resistance. 

• If the attacker succeeds, it steals up to the number of 
	 Ephemeral beings can spend Essence to boost their successes in Essence, as long as the victimized entity 

traits for a single scene on a point-per-dot basis. They has Essence remaining to lose.
can’t boost a single trait by more than Rank + 2 dots; 

126 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



•	 Ghosts regain a point of Essence whenever someone and regain up to 1 Willpower point per scene by fulfilling 
remembers the living person they once were. Visiting their Virtue. All ghosts have the same Fate, “Forgotten,” 
their grave, simply sitting and remembering them, or which comes into play when a ghost risks losing an anchor 
recognizing their Manifested form as the person they and sliding closer to imprisonment in the Underworld. Even 
used to be all qualify. powerful ghosts that are summoned back to the material 

world retain this Fate, as the conditions of their summoning 
•	 Spirits may attempt to gorge themselves on a source of are all that’s keeping them from the Great Below.

appropriate Essence. Once per day, when in proxim- Alone among ephemeral beings, ghosts also possess 
ity (even if it’s on the other side of the Gauntlet) to a Integrity, set at the level they had before death. Their Integrity 
suitable Condition, a spirit can roll Power + Finesse, scores don’t change, however, as ghosts do not suffer breaking 
regaining successes in Essence. If the spirit is still in points. Their self-image is fixed, unless something happens to 
the Shadow, the dice pool is penalized according to push them back to the level of cognizance and self-awareness 
Gauntlet strength. they had in life. If this should happen somehow, they can 

• suffer breaking points the same way living people can.
	 Angels are mechanisms in the God-Machine, and like 

Spirits don’t have an Integrity trait, a Virtue, or a Vice. 
any machine they are sustained by fuel. God-Machine 

Instead, they regain 1 point of spent Willpower per 3 points 
cultists sacrificing precious resources (metaphorical or 

of Essence they consume by gorging or stealing as described 
literal), animals, or even humans to the angel in its 

above. They do, however, have Fates, which reflect the vio-
presence allow it to regain the Resources value of the 

lent struggle of spiritual existence. Keywords like “Bound,” 
item or animal, or the current Integrity of a human 

“Consumed,” or “Starved” are all appropriate for spirit Fates.
sacrifice, as Essence.

Angels lack Integrity — they simply obey the God-
Machine in all things — and likewise don’t have Fates. 

Attributes and Skills They do have Virtues and Vices, though, built into them as 
Ephemeral beings don’t have the nine Attributes familiar operating guidelines and preset responses. Angelic Virtues 

in material characters, but use a simplified set of the Power, and Vices don’t have to be anything a human would de-
Finesse, and Resistance categories mortal Attributes fall into. scribe as virtuous or wicked. Examples include “Silent,” 
When creating an ephemeral being, look at the Rank chart “Hidden,” “Obedient,” “Curious,” “Punctual,” “Wrathful,” 
earlier in this section to determine how many dots are avail- and “Precise,” all as either Virtue or Vice depending on the 
able and what the trait maximum is. Ghosts usually use the angel in question.
average rating in each category from when they were alive 
— for example, a man with Strength 3, Intelligence 2, and Other Traits
Presence 2 would become a ghost with Power 2. Because they have simplified traits, ephemeral entities cal-

Power describes the raw ability of the entity to impose culate derived traits a little differently from mortal characters.
itself on other ephemeral beings and the world at large. It Corpus: Ephemeral beings don’t have Health, but 
is used in all rolls that call for Strength, Intelligence, or measure how intact their Twilight form is using Corpus. 
Presence. Permanent Corpus is equal to Resistance + Size, and grants 

Finesse describes how deft the entity is at imposing its Corpus boxes that act like Health boxes, filling when the 
desires with fine control. It is used for all rolls that call for entity suffers injury. Corpus boxes don’t have wound penal-
Dexterity, Wits, or Manipulation. ties associated with them.

Resistance describes how well the entity can avoid imposi- Willpower: Entities have Willpower dots equal to 
tion from its peers, and how easily it is damaged. It is used Resistance + Finesse, with a maximum of 10 dots for entities 
for all rolls that call for Stamina, Resolve, or Composure. with the Ranks presented in this book. In addition to the 

Ephemeral beings don’t possess skills, but don’t suffer Willpower-gaining methods described above, all ephemeral 
unskilled penalties as long as the action they’re attempting beings regain 1 spent Willpower per day.
is appropriate to their former self, nature, or mission. They Initiative: Initiative is equal to Finesse + Resistance.
roll the appropriate Attribute + Rank for actions relating Defense: Defense is equal to Power or Finesse, whichever 
directly to their concept, or Attribute + Attribute for actions is lower, except for Rank 1 spirits which use the higher of the 
like surprise and perception. two Attributes. The more an entity is driven by raw instinct, 

the more animal defense it displays in combat.
Advantages Speed: Speed is equal to Power + Finesse + a species factor. 

Ephemeral beings differ in how they treat Integrity, Spirits of inanimate objects usually have a species factor of 0.
Virtues, and Vices. If using the Fate optional rule (see p. Size: Ephemeral beings can be of any size. Ghosts are 
177), they also handle that differently. usually Size 5, while spirits often use Rank as Size, growing 

Ghosts retain their Virtue and Vice from life, but they larger as they become more powerful. Angels designed to 
are reversed in effect — ghosts regain all spent Willpower by blend in are sized as humans or animals, but some angelic 
fulfilling their Vice, but can only do so once per chapter, entities are very large, up to Size 10 or higher.

127 
Game Systems



Language: Rank 1 ghosts can’t communicate verbally; their ephemeral Twilight form and physical substances always 
they don’t have enough of their sense of self left to employ contains a flaw — a bane — that damages the entity’s Corpus 
language. Rank 2 and higher ghosts know whichever lan- through symbolic or mystical interference. The bane is a 
guages they knew in life. Spirits all speak the native tongue of physical substance or energy the entity can’t abide. 
the shadow world, a strange, sibilant language that resembles •	 Ephemeral beings voluntarily attempting to come into 
ancient Sumerian, but often learn the human languages contact with the bane must spend a Willpower point 
common around their Essence-feeding grounds. Angels and succeed on a Power + Resistance roll with a dice 
speak all human languages simultaneously, and more — they penalty equal to their Rank.
sometimes “speak” in strange glossolalia or sounds more like 
electronic noise than a language, and appear to understand •	 Banes are solid to entities, even when they are in 
each other when doing so. When an angel wishes to be un- Twilight. They do not, however, affect spirits on the 
derstood, everyone present hears it speak fluently in their other side of the Gauntlet.
native languages.

•	 Simply touching the bane — even voluntarily — causes 
Bans a level of aggravated damage per turn if the entity is 

Materialized, and causes the relevant Condition to end 
All ephemeral beings suffer from a mystical compulsion unless the entity succeeds in a roll of Rank in dice. The 

known as the ban, a behavior that the entity must or must not roll must be repeated every turn if contact holds.
perform under certain conditions. They can be as simplistic 
as “the angel cannot cross railway lines,” moderately complex •	 If the item or person to which a Fettered entity is 
like “the ghost must come if you call her name into a mirror linked comes into contact with the bane, the entity suf-
three times within her anchor,” or as difficult as, “the angel fers a level of lethal damage per turn as long as contact 
must receive a tribute of a printing press that has used blood holds. The entity must use the Unfetter Manifestation 
as ink once a month or lose a Rank.” Effect to escape.

Bans increase in both complexity and consequences with 
Rank. •	 Touching the bane while in Twilight causes a point 

Rank 1 entities have mild bans that are easily triggered, of lethal damage per turn to non-Manifested entities.
but don’t endanger the entity. A spirit of bliss can’t resist an 
offering of opiates. The ghost of a nun has to immediately use •	 If the bane has been used as a weapon against the 
an offered rosary. A weak angel must stand still and parrot entity, the wounds suffered are aggravated for Manifest 
hexadecimal numbers when they’re spoken to it. entities and lethal for entities still in Twilight.

Rank 2 and 3 entities have moderate bans that curtail the Banes are increasingly esoteric and obscure for entities 
creature’s activities in a more serious way than mere distrac- of increasing Rank. 
tion. A ghost must immediately dematerialize when it hears Rank 1 entities have common substances and phenomena 
the sound of a cat. The murderous spirit of a car that has as banes. Ghosts burn at the touch of salt. The spirit of a for-
run down multiple people loses all Willpower if it doesn’t est is poisoned by the fumes of burning plastic. A low-Rank 
kill one person a month. The angel of the records answers angel can’t touch gold.
any question about the family, background, or true identity 
of a subject if the questioner accurately tells the angel her 
time (to the minute) and place of birth. 

Rank 4 and 5 entities have complicated bans that put 
an end to whatever the creature is trying to do — often in an Honorary Rank
explosive fashion. They have consequences in game traits or Some supernatural creatures that are closely 
long-term actions, but esoteric requirements. The Smiling related to a form of ephemeral being have 
Corpse, a ghost summoned back from the Underworld by “honorary” Rank in the appropriate otherworldly 
a mystery cult, is immediately banished back to the Great hierarchy; Sin-Eaters are all Bound to a ghost, for 
Below if anyone should sing a particular nursery rhyme in his example, and werewolves are treated with respect 
presence. The spirit of Mount Iliamna, a volcano in Alaska, by spirits according to their Renown. 
will use its Numina to kill a victim named by anyone who Technicalities, in this case, count, but only against 
makes it an offering of platinum that was mined from its the ephemeral entity. A werewolf who “outranks” 
foothills. The angel Uriminel, four-faced enforcer of destiny, a minor spirit will deal devastating wounds to it 
has Defense 0 against individuals who have fulfilled their Fate with his claws, but a high-Rank spirit can’t burn 
within the last lunar month. that werewolf by touching him. There are other 

ways to assert dominance, and high-Rank enti-
Banes ties are quite capable of showing the half-fleshed 

who’s boss.
Ephemeral entities are not of the material world, and react 

strangely to some elements of it. The interaction between 

128 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Rank 2 and 3 entities have difficult to obtain, but still (a spirit with metal fists, for example) indicates that it should 
“natural,” banes. Powerful ghosts are repelled by holy water. inflict lethal wounds instead. Some entities use weapons, in 
A spirit must be killed by a sharpened stake made of pine. which case roll Power + Finesse, then apply weapon damage 
A mid-Rank angel can be killed by a weapon dusted with the on a successful attack.
ground-up remains of a meteorite. Entities in Twilight can only attack or be attacked by 

Rank 4 and 5 entities have highly-specific banes that other ephemeral beings of the same type, unless the attack 
require great effort to acquire. The lord of an Underworld utilizes the entity’s bane.
realm, now walking the Earth and served by a cult of wor- Physical attacks on a Manifested entity that would nor-
shippers, can be killed by an obsidian blade marked with the mally cause lethal damage only cause bashing damage unless 
names of 13 Gods of Death. The spirit of the US Treasury the attack utilizes the entity’s bane. Despite appearing to the 
(the building) can be killed by a silver bullet made from a naked eye and being solid, a Manifested spirit, ghost, or angel 
melted-down original dollar. A high-Rank angel can’t willingly doesn’t have any internal organs to injure.
touch the sigils of a certain incantation in Sumerian, and dies Ephemeral beings record and heal from wounds in the 
if the signs are carved into the flesh of its host. same way as material characters, but  lose one point of Essence 

The hierarchical nature of ephemeral beings also plays a for every aggravated wound they suffer.
part — Rank isn’t a social convention for them, but a funda- Ephemeral entities that lose all Corpus from lethal or 
mental part of their nature. Ephemeral entities of 2 Ranks aggravated wounds explode into a burst of ephemera, styl-
or more above an opponent of the same type (a Rank 5 spirit ized to their nature. A forest spirit dies in a hail of rapidly-
attacking a Rank 3 spirit, for example), count as their op- vanishing pine needles, while ghosts crumble, screaming, into 
ponent’s bane when using unarmed attacks, claws, or teeth. the ground. The entity isn’t actually dead, though, unless it 

has also run out of Essence. If it has even a single Essence 
Combat point remaining, it reforms, hibernating, in a safe place (a 

Conditioned location, usually). Once it has regained Essence 
As noted earlier, ephemeral beings use the lower of 

points equal to its Corpus dots, it spends an Essence point 
Finesse or Resistance for Defense unless they are Rank 1, in 

and reawakens. As the entity can’t act while hibernating, this 
which case they use the higher. They apply Defense against 

means it must wait for the one Essence a day for being in a 
all attacks, even firearms.

suitable area to slowly build up to Corpus, and that more 
Ephemeral beings roll Power + Finesse to attack. Their 

powerful entities take longer to recover from being “killed.”
attacks inflict bashing damage unless the nature of the entity 

129 
Game Systems



Influence Effects
Level Effect
• Strengthen The entity can enhance its sphere of influence. It can add to the Defense of a loved 

one, make an emotion stronger, an animal or plant healthier, or an object more 
robust, gaining the entity’s Rank in Health or Structure. This Influence can shift the 
Anchor, Resonant or Infrastructure Condition to Open for its duration. The cost is 1 
Essence.

•• Manipulate The entity can make minor changes within its sphere of influence, such as slightly 
changing the nature or target of an emotion, or make minor changes to an animal’s 
actions, a plant’s growth, or an object’s functionality. The cost is 2 Essence.

••• Control The entity can make dramatic changes within its sphere of influence, twisting emo-
tions entirely or dictating an animal’s actions, a plant’s growth or an object’s func-
tionality. This Influence can shift the Open Condition to Controlled for its duration. 
The cost is 3 Essence.

•••• Create The entity can create a new example of its sphere of influence. It can create a new 
anchor, instill an emotion, create a new sapling or young plant, create a young 
animal, or create a brand new object. The entity can cause a temporary Anchor, 
Infrastructure, or Resonant Condition in a subject for the duration of the Influence. The 
cost is 4 Essence.

••••• Mass Create The entity can create multiple examples of its sphere of influence, triggering emotions 
in multiple people, creating new copses of trees, small groups of animals, or mul-
tiple, identical items. The cost is 5 Essence. The number of examples of the Influence 
created is equal to Rank. Alternately, the entity may create one instance of its sphere 
of influence — including creating the base Condition for its type — permanently, 
although an ephemeral entity can’t permanently alter the mind of a sentient being.

Influence 
All ephemeral beings have a degree of Influence over 

the world, which they can leverage to control and shape the Influence Durations
basis of their existence. Ghosts have power over their own 
anchors, spirits can control and encourage the phenomena Level Duration Cost
from which they were born, and the God-Machine grants 0 One minute per No additional 
angels broad authority over things relating to their mission. success Essence cost.

Entities begin with dots in Influence equal to Rank. • Ten minutes per No additional 
Although Rank is also the maximum rating for an Influence, success Essence cost.
ephemeral beings can split their dots to have more than one 
Influence. A Rank 4 spirit of dogs, for example, might have •• One hour per The cost is 1 ad-
Influence: Dogs ••• and Influence: Loyalty •. success ditional Essence.

Entities may reduce their number of Numina granted by ••• One day per The cost is 2 ad-
Rank to increase Influence dots, at a cost of 1 Numen per dot. success ditional Essence.

Spirits and angels have Influences that relate to their •••• Permanent The cost is 2 ad-
natures, which may be used in multiple circumstances — the ditional Essence.
dog spirit, for example, has Influence: Dogs, not Influence 
over a particular dog. 

Influence is measured in both scale and duration. To use 
an Influence, compare the entity’s Influence rating to the being, the roll is contested by Resolve or Composure (which-
total dots of the intended effect and how long it is to last. ever is higher) + Supernatural Tolerance.
The total must be equal to or less than the entity’s Influence 
rating in order for the Influence to be attempted. Manifestation

The entity pays the listed cost in Essence and rolls Power 
+ Finesse, with success creating the desired effect. If the Ephemeral beings can interact with the mortal world in 

Influence is altering the thoughts or emotions of a sentient many different ways, from lurking in Shadow and reaching 

130 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Manifestation Effects
Manifestation Effect
Twilight Form If the entity enters the material world, it does so in Twilight (see p. 124). The Effect 

has no cost.
Discorporate In emergencies, the entity can voluntarily Discorporate as though it had lost all 

Corpus to lethal injury — a painful way to escape a greater entity threatening to 
permanently kill it. The Effect has no cost.

Reaching (Spirit only) By spending one Essence, the spirit applies the Reaching Condition to 
itself. The activation roll is penalized by the local Gauntlet Strength.

Gauntlet Breach (Spirit only — requires Resonant Condition) By spending 3 Essence, the spirit forces 
itself through the Gauntlet — returning to Shadow from the material world, or ap-
pearing in Twilight Form by entering the material world. The activation roll is penal-
ized by the local Gauntlet Strength.

Avernian Gateway (Ghost, angel, or death-related spirit only — Requires Open Condition) By spend-
ing 3 Essence, the entity opens a nearby gateway to the Underworld, and applies 
the Underworld Gate Condition to the location.

Shadow Gateway (Rank 3+ spirit or angel only — Requires Open Condition) By spending Essence 
equal to Gauntlet Strength, the entity opens a portal to the Shadow that it and 
other entities may use, applying the “Shadow Gate” Condition to the location. The 
activation roll is penalized by the local Gauntlet Strength.

Image (Requires Anchor, Resonant, or Infrastructure Condition) By spending 1 Essence, the 
entity may make its Twilight form visible to material beings for a scene.

Materialize (Requires Open Condition) By spending 3 Essence, the entity may shift from Twilight 
form into the Materialized Condition.

Fetter (Requires Open Condition) By spending 2 Essence, the entity adds the Fettered 
Condition to itself. Living beings targeted by this Effect contest the roll with Resolve 
+ Composure + Supernatural Tolerance. If the Effect is successful, living targets gain 
the Urged Condition.

Unfetter (Requires Fettered Condition) By spending 1 point of Essence, the entity temporarily 
suppresses the Fetter Condition for a Scene, allowing it to use other Manifestation 
Effects or roam in Twilight. When the Scene ends, any Manifestation Effects used 
during it immediately end. If the entity isn’t back within range of its Fetter (see p. 
133) when Unfetter ends, it immediately goes dormant.

Possess (Requires Open Condition) By spending 3 Essence, the entity gains temporary 
control over an object, corpse, or creature, applying the Possessed Condition to the 
subject. Living subjects contest the roll with Resolve + Composure + Supernatural 
Tolerance.

Claim (Requires Controlled Condition) By spending 5 Essence, the entity gains permanent 
control over an object, creature or corpse, applying the Claimed Condition to the 
subject. Living subjects contest the roll with Resolve + Composure + Supernatural 
Tolerance. An entity must be capable of both the Fetter and Possess Manifestations 
to buy Claim.

across the Gauntlet to physically Manifesting or merging the number of Numina they are granted by Rank, at the cost 
into a human soul. Just as Influence traits determine what of 1 Numen per Manifestation Effect.
level of control the creature has over their environment, Most Manifestation Effects have prerequisite Influence 
Manifestation traits define which forms of Manifestation are or Manifestation Conditions – a spirit can only Fetter to 
possible for a particular entity. something with an Open Condition, for example.

Entities begin with the Twilight Form Manifestation and All Manifestation Effects require a Power + Finesse roll 
a number of Manifestation Effects from the list below, equal to use. Most have an associated cost in Essence, and some 
to Rank. Some effects are only available to certain kinds of are contested or resisted.
entities. Entities may increase their capabilities by reducing 

131 
Game Systems



Ephemeral Influence  higher ones must be created by entities using Influences and 

and Manifestation Conditions Manifestations.

If something falls into an ephemeral being’s sphere of Durations of Stacked Conditions
influence, this is handled mechanically by declaring an In the most advanced forms of Inf luence and 
Influence Condition. Influence Conditions resemble Tilts Manifestation, entities may attempt to create a long-lasting 
and character Conditions. Condition that has a prerequisite of a very temporary one. 

The different forms of Manifestation Effect are also When one Condition is advanced into another, the remain-
Conditions, applied to the location, object, or character the ing duration of the prerequisite Conditions is “frozen.” 
entity is Manifesting into, or in cases like Reaching, to the If a prerequisite Condition is removed from a character 
entity itself. (for example, a Possessed character’s Open Condition is 

Unlike many Conditions, Influence and Manifestation removed by exorcism) any Conditions relying on it, any 
Conditions are tiered and interrelated; Manifestation Conditions relying on them, and so on, are immediately 
Conditions have Influence Conditions as prerequisites and removed. The most advanced remaining Condition then 
vice versa. The lower tiers are naturally occurring, while the resumes its duration.

132 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



were once spirits may cross the Gauntlet at a Locus with a 
ANCHOR successful Intelligence + Presence roll. Claimed that were 

inanimate objects are fully animate, fusions of spiritual power, 
metal, and plastic.

Description: The subject of this Condition — usually a Causing the Condition: This Condition is created by an 
location or object, though it can be a person in rare cases — is entity using the Claim Manifestation Effect.
within the sphere of influence of a ghost. Ghosts in or within Ending the Condition: Claim is permanent in living 
Rank x3 yards of their Anchors do not suffer Essence bleed. hosts unless the entity decides to detach itself, rolling its 

Causing the Condition: This Condition is immediately original Power + Finesse penalized by its Rank in dice and 
created when a new ghost is formed, based on whatever contested by the Claimed hybrid’s Resolve + Composure, 
subject anchors the ghost’s identity. Summoning rituals in- including any dots gained from being Claimed. If the entity 
tended to release ghosts from the Underworld or call them succeeds, the entity and host are separated. Former hosts 
from elsewhere temporarily create this Condition in their are physically and mentally scarred — the physical appear-
target. Finally, a high-Rank ghost can use a Create Influence ance changes back at the same rate it mutated, and the extra 
to mark a target as an Anchor. Attribute dots fade at a rate of two per day. The Essence 

Ending the Condition: The easiest way to end an Anchor trait and any supernatural powers the Claimed developed 
condition is to destroy the subject. Some ghosts cling to immediately vanish. Former Claimed, however, retain the 
Anchors that represent unfinished business, in which case Virtue and Vice of the entity that took them over. 
resolving those issues can remove the Condition. Abjuration In nonliving hosts, Claim is only temporary – once the 
temporarily suppresses the Condition, as described on p. 140, Claim has fully formed, the host loses one dot of a Physical 
forcing the ghost to retreat to another Anchor if it has one. Attribute (or the equivalent for formerly-inanimate objects) 
Ghosts without Anchors bleed Essence until they fall into per three days. When any of these Attributes reaches 0, the 
dormancy, at which point the Underworld Gate Condition host disintegrates and the entity is released into Twilight.
is created and the ghost is banished to the Great Below.

CLAIMED CONTROLLED 
Prerequisites: The intended subject of this Condition 

Description: A Claimed object, corpse, creature, or per- must have the Open Condition, tagged to the entity attempt-
son has been permanently possessed and merges with the ing to cause it.
entity involved. Unlike Possess, living Claimed aren’t put into Description: The object, creature, or person covered by 
a fugue state, but remain mentally active while their soul and an Open Condition has now been so conditioned that the 
the Claiming entity merge together over the course of several entity may attempt to Claim it, permanently merging with it.
days. During the period of fusion, the subject is under all Causing the Condition: This Condition is the result of 
the effects of the Urged Condition, described above. Once repeated use of the Possess Manifestation effect by the causing 
a day, starting with the moment the Claimed Condition is entity. It must have succeeded in possessing the subject on a 
created, add one dot of the entity’s Attributes to the host’s, number of separate occasions equal to the Willpower of either 
permanently raising them. Power may be assigned to Strength, the entity or the subject, whichever is higher. If any Possessed 
Intelligence, or Presence, Finesse to Wits, Dexterity, or Condition is removed before its duration ends, progress is 
Manipulation, and Resistance to Stamina, Composure, or lost on building to the required number of possessions.
Resolve. The host’s physical form begins to mutate, taking on Ending the Condition: Successfully ending the Claimed 
an appearance influenced by the original host and the entity. Condition against the entity’s will, by exorcism or by forc-

Claimed corpses add points to Attributes as above, but ing the Claimed subject into contact with the entity’s bane, 
start with all Mental and Social Attributes at 0. Inanimate removes this Condition and reverts the subject to Open.
objects use the statistics appropriate for their type (Adding 
Resistance to Structure and Durability, Power to Acceleration, 
and Finesse to Handling) instead of Physical Attributes, and FETTERED 
also start the claiming process with all Mental and Social 
Attributes at 0. Corpses and inanimate hosts don’t spend Prerequisites: The intended subject of this Condition 
the claiming period under the Urged Condition, having no must have the Open Condition, tagged to the entity attempt-
minds of their own to warp. ing to cause it.

Claimed may use the entity’s Influences, but not their Description: The entity has secured itself to an object 
Numina or Manifestation Effects. They may develop super- or creature. As long as it remains Fettered, the entity is 
natural powers as Merits. From the moment the Claimed safe from Essence Bleed. The entity remains in Twilight, 
Condition is laid, the entity is safe from Essence Bleed. The and must stay within five yards of the Fetter. Most entities 
hybrid being that results has the entity’s Essence trait, Virtue, Fettering themselves literally hide inside their Fetters if they 
Vice, Ban, and Bane, but is a material being. Claimed that are small enough. 

133 
Game Systems



The entity pays one fewer Essence for using Influences 
on the Fetter, but may not use them or Numina on another 
target as long as the Fetter lasts. Avernian Gateways

Causing the Condition: This Condition is created by an 
entity using the Fetter Manifestation Effect. Doorways to the Underworld, also called Avernian 

gates, exist all over the world, but are invisible to 
Ending the Condition: Fetters are permanent unless all but a handful of psychics. The gateways are in 

the prerequisite Conditions are ended, or if the subject of Twilight, made of ghostly ephemera, and appear 
the Fetter is destroyed or (if a living being) killed. The entity in places with the Resonant Condition tagged as 
can voluntarily end the Condition by using the Unfetter “Death” — anywhere people die in large numbers 
Manifestation Effect. A successful exorcism removes this or has a feel of Death about it can house a gate. 
Condition. They remain closed unless they are the nearest 

gate to a ghost who loses his last Anchor, in which 
INFRASTRUCTURE case they open for a turn as his Corpus passes on.

Description: The subject of this Condition is within the 
sphere of influence of an angel. Causing the Condition: This Condition is usually the 

Causing the Condition: Infrastructure, unlike Anchor result of an entity fine tuning the prerequisite Condition as 
and Resonant, never occurs naturally. The God-Machine part of an extended action involving the subject and entity 
requires effort to prepare the way for its angels; extended acting in concert, for a number of scenes equal to Rank or a 
actions by cultists, unwitting pawns or even other angels living subject’s Resolve, whichever is higher. Using a Control 
create Infrastructure. High-Rank angels can use the Create Influence allows an entity to temporarily create the Open 
Influence to instill this Condition on behalf of themselves or Condition as an instant action. 
a subordinate angel. In addition, characters with the Destiny Ending the Condition: The Condition ends if the 
Merit are always subject to this Condition. prerequisite Condition is removed. Exorcism rituals work 

Ending the Condition: Infrastructure’s intricate nature by removing this Condition, reverting it to the prerequisite. 
makes it much more difficult to remove. Multiple extended 
actions that take place over whole stories are necessary to POSSESSED 
dismantle the Condition, opposed by the angel itself.

Description: This object, corpse, or living being is be-
MATERIALIZED ing temporarily controlled by an ephemeral entity. Living 

hosts are put into a coma-like state while being possessed; 
Description: The entity has shifted from ephemeral to they experience the possession as missing time, aside from 

material substance, manifesting in physical form. All the rules flashbacks that might come out in dreams or times of stress 
for ephemeral entities’ traits still apply, except for the effects such as losing Integrity. The entity may not use Numina or 
of being in Twilight. This Condition protects the entity from Influences while controlling the host, but is safe from Essence 
Essence Bleed for its duration. Bleed for as long as the possession lasts. 

Causing the Condition: This Condition is created by an The entity may pay one Essence per turn to heal a lethal or 
entity using the Materialize Manifestation Effect on an Open bashing wound or a point of structure lost to damage. Corpses 
Condition. If the Open Condition used is on an object or that died from damage begin Possession incapacitated, and must 
person, the entity must materialize within its Rank in yards. be “healed” with Essence

Ending the Condition: Materialization lasts for one hour Entities possessing inanimate objects or corpses have a 
per success on the activating roll. When the duration ends, great deal of control over their host. An entity controlling 
the entity fades back into Twilight. Physical contact with a an object can’t make it do anything it couldn’t do while be-
Bane or removal of a prerequisite condition can cause the ing operated, but it can turn switches on and off, operate 
Condition to end early. machinery, use keyboards, and turn dials. Use the entity’s 

Finesse if dice rolls are necessary.
OPEN Corpses and other articulated hosts capable of movement, 

like shop mannequins or industrial robots, use their own 
Physical Attributes, but use the entity’s Attributes in Social or 

Prerequisites: The Anchor, Resonant, or Infrastructure 
Mental rolls. By spending a point of Essence, the entity can 

Condition for the same phenomenon this Condition is 
use its own Attributes instead of the host’s for Physical tasks 

tagged to.
for a turn, but doing so causes one point of lethal damage 

Description: The place, object, animal, or person covered 
or structure loss to the host.

by a previous Condition has now been conditioned to accept 
Living hosts require more time for the entity to gain full 

the entity. It can attempt to Fetter itself to the subject of the 
control, and always use their own Attributes. The entity may 

Condition, or, if the Condition is on a location, Manifest.
read the host’s mind with a Finesse Roll at a -4 penalty, use 

134 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



the host’s physical skills at a -3 penalty, and use their 
social and mental skills at a -4 penalty. These penalties 
are all reduced by one die per day that the entity has 
been Fettered to the host. Most possessing entities 
Fetter themselves to their intended hosts, and use 
the Possess Manifestation Effect to take full control 
only in emergencies.

To possess a host, the entity must remain in 
Twilight, superimposed over the host. This means 
that if the host touches the entity’s bane, or is injured 
by a weapon made of the bane, the entity will suffer 
wounds to its Corpus. 

Causing the Condition: This Condition is cre-
ated by an entity using the Possess Manifestation 
Effect. The object or victim must be under the Open 
Condition, tagged to the entity.

Ending the Condition: The possession lasts for 
a single scene, unless the entity abandons it early 
or the host is killed or destroyed. Abjurations, exor-
cisms, and forced contact with banes and bans can 
all motivate an entity to release a host.

REACHING
Description: The spirit has opened a conduit 

through the Gauntlet, allowing it to use Influences 
and Numina to affect the other side. Numina with 

 after their name can be used with this Condition. 
Characters capable of perceiving spirits in Twilight 
can sense the conduit’s presence with a successful 
Wits + Composure roll.

Causing the Condition: This Condition is the 
result of the Reaching Manifestation Effect, and lasts 
for one Scene.

Ending the Condition: At the end of the scene, 
the Condition fades. Mortals may attempt an abjura-
tion with a three-die penalty to close the conduit and 
end the Condition early. 

RESONANT 
Description: The subject of this Condition is 

within the sphere of influence of a spirit.
Causing the Condition: This Condition is com-

mon and occurs naturally; if an object, phenomenon, 
person, or place matches the spirit’s purview in 
some way, it has this Condition. Anything match-
ing the description of one of a spirit’s Influences 
counts as having this Condition tagged to the spirit. 
Summoning rituals intended to entice a particular 
spirit to a location work by instilling the qualities that 
result in this Condition. Finally, a high-Rank spirit 
can use a Create Influence to cause the prerequisites 
for the Condition itself. 

Ending the Condition: The Condition ends if the 
phenomenon creating it ends. A forest stops being 

135 
Game Systems



Resonant for a tree spirit when all the trees are logged, a grief Causing the Condition: This Condition is created by an 
spirit can’t Influence someone who has healed and let go of entity using the Fetter Manifestation Effect.
his pain, and a fire spirit must move on when the fire is extin- Ending the Condition: The Urged Condition ends 
guished. Abjuration and exorcism may temporarily suppress whenever the linked Fetter ends.
the Condition, or be the cause of it “naturally” ending, if the 
ritualists remove the causal phenomenon as part of the ritual. Numina

SHADOW GATE In addition to Influence and Manifestation, all ephem-
eral entities have a number of discrete magical powers called 
Numina. Each Numen is a single ability — activated by a suc-

Description: The location has a hole punched through the cessful Power + Finesse roll unless stated otherwise — linked 
Gauntlet. Spirits — and even incautious people — can cross through to the entity’s nature.
it without the use of any powers. The Shadow Gate is visible even The Numina described here are deliberately generic. 
to material beings, as the Shadow world and material worlds mix. Individual ephemeral beings display their Numen in ways 

Causing the Condition: This Condition can be created by using reflecting their type, theme, and biases — a ghost’s Blast is 
the Shadow Gateway Manifestation Effect on an Open Condition. an empty, freezing cold in the bones of its victim, while an 
Very rare summoning rituals can also create this Condition, allow- angel’s Awe manifests as a terrible, holy aura.
ing the spirit being called to access the material world. Numina with  next to their name are usable in conjunc-

Ending the Condition: At the end of the scene, the tion with the Reaching Condition. 
Condition fades. An exorcism directed at the gate can end 
the Condition early. AGGRESSIVE MEME

UNDERWORLD GATE The entity speaks to a person (it must be in a Condition 
capable of doing so), and plants an idea in their mind. When 

Description: The location has an open gateway to the that person tells someone else the idea, it takes hold in their 
Underworld. All ghosts regain one Essence per scene that mind, too, as well as in the minds of whomever they tell. 
they are in the gateway’s presence, and ghosts without anchors The Numen costs 7 Essence to activate, and is contested by 
may use it to reenter the world. Resolve + Composure + Supernatural Tolerance. 

Causing the Condition: This Condition can be created 
by using the Avernian Gateway Manifestation Effect on an 
Open Condition. Some supernatural beings with ties to death AWE
are also able to open Avernian Gateways. Even mortals can 
open a gate if one is present and they know the proper means. The entity causes terror in anyone who can see it. The 
Mortals who conduct rituals to first open a Death-Resonant Numen costs 3 Essence, and its activation is contested with 
location housing a gate can unlock it, causing this Condition, Presence + Composure + Supernatural Tolerance individu-
but require the key to do so. Every Gateway has a key — an item ally by anyone looking at the entity. Anyone achieving fewer 
or action that will open it. Keys can be physical objects, but are successes than the entity is unable to move or speak for a 
also sometimes actions or emotions, or are tied to times and turn. If the entity gains an exceptional success, the effect 
events; a Gate might open for a murder at midnight, when lasts three turns.
touched with a certain doll, or when a woman betrayed in love 
turns her back on it three times. Researching a proper key is a BLAST
difficult Intelligence + Occult roll, with a -3 to -5 dice modifier. 

Ending the Condition: At the end of the scene, the The entity may wound opponents at a distance. Range is 
Condition fades. An exorcism directed at the gate can end equal to 10 yards per dot of Power, and the entity does not 
the Condition early. suffer range penalties. If the activation roll succeeds, the 

Blast wounds as a lethal weapon. The entity may increase the 
URGED lethality of its Blast by paying Essence — every 2 Essence spent 

increases the “weapon” by one lethal damage. The maximum 
Description: This animal or human host has been used weapon bonus is equal to the entity’s Rank.

as a Fetter by an ephemeral being. The entity may read the 
subject’s thoughts with a successful Power + Finesse roll, DEMENT 
contested by Resolve + Supernatural Tolerance. Success re-
veals surface thoughts. The entity may urge the host to take a The entity may torture its victim’s mind via psychic as-
specific action with a successful Power + Finesse roll contested sault. The Numen costs 1 Essence, and the activation roll 
by Resolve + Composure, with an extra die. If the entity wins, is contested by the victim’s Intelligence + Supernatural 
the urge is created. Following it rewards the host with a Beat.

136 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Tolerance. If the entity succeeds, the victim suffers the Insane 
Tilt (p. 285) for the rest of the Scene. HOST JUMP

DRAIN The entity may leap from host to host when using the 
Possess or Claim Manifestations. The current host must touch 

The entity can steal Essence or Willpower (chosen at acti- the intended host while the entity spends 3 Essence, and the 
vation) from a material being. The activation roll is contested new host must be under any prerequisite Conditions. If both 
by Stamina + Resolve + Supernatural Tolerance. Whichever prerequisites are met, the entity immediately transfers the 
character — entity or target — gains the most successes receives Possessed or Claimed Condition to the new host, although 
points of Willpower or Essence equal to successes, while the Claimed must begin the process of Claiming again. The en-
other party loses the same number. tity does not need to re-spend Essence on the Manifestation 

Effect when jumping hosts with this Numen. Living Claim 
EMOTIONAL AURA victims vacated with the use of this Numen still suffer the 

aftereffects listed under the Claimed Condition.

The entity sends out a wave of powerful — and distract-
ing — emotion. This Numen costs 1 Essence, and lasts for a IMPLANT MISSION 
scene, or until the entity uses another Numina. The activation 
roll is made once, but anyone coming within five yards of This Numen grants a mortal a vision of a task the entity 
the entity must make a Resolve + Composure + Supernatural wishes him to accomplish, and a magical determination to 
Tolerance roll. If the activation roll had more successes, the see it through. The entity pays 2 Essence and rolls Power 
victim suffers a -2 dice penalty to all actions as long as the aura + Finesse. On a success, the subject receives a short vision 
remains. If the victim gains more successes, he is immune to of whatever the entity wishes him to do, and is under the 
the aura unless the entity uses the Numen again. Obsessed Condition regarding carrying that mission out.

ESSENCE THIEF INNOCUOUS
The entity may steal Essence from and consume ephem- This Numen does not require a roll to activate and has no 

eral beings other than its own type — for example, spirits with cost. The entity is very good at being overlooked. Perception 
this Numen may consume ghosts and angels. The Numen rolls to notice the entity are penalized by two dice.
costs 1 Essence to activate.

LEFT-HANDED SPANNER
FATE SENSE

The entity disables a device, paying 1 Essence and touching 
If using the Fate optional rule, the entity may taste the the object if Manifest, or moving its Twilight form to superim-

Fate of a mortal being. The Numen costs 1 Essence, and is pose over it if not. The device must be a human-manufactured 
contested by Resolve + Supernatural Tolerance. Characters object with at least three moving parts. If the activation roll 
with the Destiny Merit may not contest this Numen. If the succeeds, the device malfunctions for the number of successes 
entity succeeds, it knows the subject’s Fate and can discern in turns. Using this Numen in combat requires the entity to 
the presence of the Destiny Merit and its rating. Grapple and gain control of the object, so it can’t be used this 

way in Twilight unless the target is as well.
FIRESTARTER 

MORTAL MASK
The entity causes flammable materials to combust. This 

Numen costs 1 Essence, and causes a small fire to break out This Numen disguises a Materialized entity as a hu-
per activation success within the entity’s Power in yards. man, and can be used at the same time as the Materialize 

Manifestation Effect. Using the Numen costs 1 Essence, and 
HALLUCINATION the human seeming lasts for activation successes in hours. 

The human “costume” is flawed — witnesses may make a Wits 

The entity may create an illusion experienced by a single + Composure roll penalized by the entity’s Finesse to realize 

target; anything from a sight or sound to an imaginary person that something is wrong. Characters able to sense the entity 

that holds a conversation. The Numen costs 1 Essence and is in Twilight do not suffer the penalty.

contested by the victim’s Wits + Composure + Supernatural 
Tolerance. Each success over the contesting roll alters one 
of the victim’s senses.

137 
Game Systems



OMEN TRANCE SEEK 
Once every 24 hours, the entity may enter a trance in The entity can sense the presence of suitable Conditions 

order to gain a glimpse of the future. The Numen costs 1 from a distance. The base range is two miles per Rank; entities 
Essence if the entity is trancing on its own behalf, or 3 Essence may spend an Essence to multiply this by 10. If successful 
if it is searching for omens for another. The activation roll is on a Finesse roll, the entity becomes aware of the direction 
an extended action, lasting at least one scene. If successful, the and distance to the nearest suitable Anchor, Infrastructure, 
entity sees a vision of an event that will occur sometime in the or Resonant Condition.
next week, which is predisposed to be a warning of danger.

SPEED
PATHFINDER 

The entity accelerates into a blur of movement. The entity 
This Numen allows an entity to know the quickest route to chooses whether to spend 2 or 4 Essence when activating 

a destination. The fastest route isn’t always the safest, and the this Numen. Spending 2 Essence doubles its Speed for the 
Numen doesn’t reveal any dangers on the way, only a set of direc- remainder of the scene, while spending 4 Essence triples it.
tions to the target. If the destination is the subject of the Safe 
Place Merit, the activation roll is contested by the lowest Resolve SIGN
+ Supernatural Tolerance among any owners. The Numen costs 
1 Essence, and lasts for a scene. If the destination is too far away 

The entity creates messages or images in any media in 
to reach that quickly, the entity must use the Numen again.

the same way that media could be used by a mortal— it can 
write in the condensation on cold glass, produce images on 

RAPTURE computer screens, and send audible messages via phone lines. 
The Numen costs 1 Essence to activate, and if successful cre-

The entity forces a response from the pleasure centers of ates a single message.
a living being’s brain, granting ecstatic visions, a feeling of 
communion with the universe, and sensations of bliss. The STALWART
Numen costs 2 Essence to activate. If successful, the victim 
suffers the Insensate Tilt (p. 285). If the victim fails a Resolve 

The entity appears armored in Twilight form, and uses 
+ Supernatural Tolerance roll, she gains a temporary derange-

Resistance instead of the lower of Power or Finesse as its 
ment for the entity’s Power in days, in a form that binds her 

Defense score.
closer to the entity’s wishes. 

REGENERATE TELEKINESIS 
The entity can manipulate objects without using a 

The entity can use Essence to heal bashing and lethal 
Manifestation Effect. This Numen costs 1 Essence, and suc-

wounds on its Corpus. This Numen does not require a roll 
cesses on the activation roll become the entity’s “Strength” 

to activate, but costs 1 Essence and heals one level of damage. 
when attempting to lift or throw an item. Fine motor control 

The entity must reactivate the Numen each turn to heal more 
is impossible using this Numen. 

severe wounds. Bashing damage is healed first, then lethal.

RESURRECTION Mortal Interaction
Mortals can interact with ephemeral entities in many more 

This Numen — only available to Rank 4+ angels and spirits ways than as simple victims to Urge, Possess, or Claim, both for 
of healing – literally raises the dead. The Numen costs 10 and against an entity’s interests. Characters with an Unseen 
Essence to use, and the activation roll is penalized by one Sense for ghosts, spirits, and angels can sense those beings’ pres-
die per day the subject has been dead. Supernatural beings ence, even if the entity is in Twilight. Mystery Cults dedicated 
that have already died as part of their transformation — vam- to serving particular entities attempt to assist their master in 
pires, mummies, and Sin-Eaters — can’t be resurrected, nor creating the necessary Conditions — often unwittingly. An 
can anyone who died of natural causes. Other supernatural angel doesn’t need to explain to the mortals it forces to carry 
beings lose their powers when resurrected. Mages become out strange actions that it is building Infrastructure, let alone 
Sleepwalkers, and werewolves, wolf-blooded. explain why the God-Machine needs it to.

And then, faced with humanity’s fate as a resource for 
alien intruders, some mortals fight back.

138 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Research
Most deliberate interactions with entities — summoning, 

exorcising, and abjuration — rely on having as much knowl- Esoteric Armory (• to •••••)
edge of the entity in question as the mortal can get. Research Effect: Your character is the go-to guy when one 
rolls to determine bans and banes are handled as extended needs a knife carved from the bone of a martyred 
Intelligence + Occult rolls for the most part, but many entities saint, a hawthorn stake, rock salt shotgun shells, 
are protected by deliberate secrecy, obscurity, or don’t take the powdered remains of cremated suicides or any 
much interest in human affairs so haven’t had their details number of other things. No matter how strange 
recorded. The target number of successes for a research roll the need, you’ve got it covered. After successfully 
is determined by the entity’s type and Rank, as follows: researching an ephemeral entity’s Bane, compare 

your dots in this Merit to the entity’s Rank. If the 
Rank Successes merit is equal to or greater than its Rank, you’ve got 

what you need in your Armory. You should decide 
1  5 along with your Storyteller where the Armory is, 
2 7 though; a one-dot Esoteric Armory can fit in a large 

bag, but a four- or five-dot one will fill a house.
3 10
4 14
5 20

A summoning is made up of several research actions 
Researching a ghost reduces the target number of suc- (Intelligence + Occult rolls, with bonuses and penalties 

cesses by two, while researching an angel increases it by for access to proper literature) to narrow down the require-
four. Reaching the target number reveals the entity’s ban ments for the rest of the rites. The remaining actions serve 
or bane, while an exceptional success reveals both. Partial as alternate ways to cause the Influence Conditions in the 
successes should reveal increasing information about the desired location. 
entity, as the character learns more about their nature, By acquiring a ghost’s bones, or researching his Anchor 
habits, and history. and using it in the rite, the summoner sets up the Anchor 

Resourceful investigators find other ways to learn the weak- Condition. By burning rare materials, the area is made 
nesses of an ephemeral foe, though. Many entities are willing to Resonant with a fire spirit. By gathering people who can 
sell out their fellows’ secrets in exchange for something. Many see the gears and following the God-Machine’s instructions, 
bans are also rather obvious, especially for low-Rank entities, Infrastructure begins to build. Using the fruits of their re-
and a mortal might simply try to use the right thing by chance. searches, the Cultists customize Conditions for their intended 

guest, advancing the Condition to Open… and allowing it 
Contact to Manifest. Summoning rituals involving bringing an entity 

Faced with a haunting, or what appears to be a haunting, forth from another world must include a step where the gate-
many occult investigators’ first course of action is to attempt way is opened — summonings for spirits must be performed 
to make contact with the entity involved. Unless the entity in locii, and those for ghosts near a gate to the Underworld. 
actually has the Image or Materialize Manifestations, or the These are even more difficult to pull off and are apt to be 
Signs Numen, this is a slow process of trial, error, and research interrupted by meddling investigators, but are the only way 
that takes up several actions, each roll relating to one tested to allow truly powerful entities access to the world.
attempt to understand what the entity wants. Supernatural Occult literature is full of proposed ways to control sum-
equipment can help the character in his endeavor. moned entities. These usually consist of banes and bans, 

Some mortals, however, are true mediums, able to make which the summoner can use as leverage. Some spirits really 
it easier for an entity to contact them. Doing so opens them are bound via their bans to serve mortals that raise them in 
up to the risk of being used for the entity’s own ends; see the the correct manner, while others will Blast anyone presump-
Medium Merit on p. 57. tuous enough to try.

Exorcism is the opposite of summoning, but works in 
Summoning and Exorcism exactly the same way — a series of actions that interact with 

the Conditions an entity is relying on to Manifest or feed. 
For a solitary occultist attempting to force a ghost to The classic image of an exorcism, priests sealing themselves 

appear, or a shaman inviting a spirit to Influence an area, into a room with a possessed victim to drive the entity out 
occult libraries are filled with summoning rites. None of with prayer, confrontation, and willpower, is a combination of 
them, strictly speaking, actually work, in that without super- exorcism to chip away at the entity’s conditions, bindings and 
natural power it’s impossible to compel an ephemeral entity wards to keep it from escaping or summoning aid, abjurations 
to appear, but the rituals and practices of a summoning can to provide a spiritual kick, and the use of as many banes and 
often, by accident or design, create the Conditions an entity bans as the exorcist has been able to research. 
would need to appear if it were so inclined.

139 
Game Systems



Abjuration from simply floating through the wall while in Twilight, and 
carefully drawing a sigil on the floor will serve to trap the 

While exorcism is an attempt to tackle the Conditions angel whose name it is. 
underpinning an entity’s presence by mundane means or the If the ritualist doesn’t have the proper bane for her ritual’s 
use of bans and banes, abjuration fights the supernatural with subject, it fails automatically, so the most important part of 
the supernatural, pitting the user’s soul and Resolve against warding is getting that detail right. Once that’s done, and the 
the entity he is attempting to force away. area has been marked, the ritualist performs whatever abjura-

Although many exorcists, and therefore many people tion method she knows, focusing on suffusing the area with 
knowledgeable enough about the ephemeral to attempt ab- the essence of the entity’s bane. Performing the ritual requires 
juration, are religious, abjuration does not require religious a Presence + Occult roll, modified by the ritualist’s Integrity as 
faith to work. It’s a consequence of the human soul; by stilling per an abjuration, and further penalized by the entity’s Rank. A 
and focusing the mind, and concentrating on the higher self, further modifier depends on the size of the area being warded.
a skilled abjurist can cause his soul to affect Twilight, forcing 
ephemeral beings away and clearing an area of Influence. Area Modifier

The abjuration effect must be performed as a medita- Small area within a location, up to a six- +1
tive exercise that helps the user stay calm, even in the face foot area
of a rampaging, Materialized spirit. Religious abjurists use 
repeated prayer, while more secular occultists rely on incan- Single room, or vehicle 0
tations learned from their researches. Anything that instills Two story, suburban building -1
the proper calm and reverence will work, though — a soldier Larger structures levy increasing penalties; an additional -1 
might attempt to abjure a ghost by reciting the patriotic oath for every equivalent of a family home. Most superstructures, 
of his country. like skyscrapers, trains, government buildings, and hospitals 

The abjuration itself is a Resolve + Composure roll are too large to be effectively warded.
contested by the entity’s Power + Resistance. As Abjuration If successful, the entity described in the ritual treats at-
channels the higher self, working the ritual by a means that tempting to move in to or out of the warded area as though 
matches the abjurist’s Virtue provides a two dice bonus to it were against its ban. The effect lasts for successes in days, 
the dice pool. A strong psyche is also useful — characters or is broken if the marking of the boundary is disturbed — a 
with Integrity 10 receive a three-die bonus, Integrity 9 char- determined entity can suffer the injury from touching the 
acters gain two dice, and Integrity 8 one die. Conversely, if bane material marker in order to break the ward.
the abjuration calls on the abjurist’s Vice, the dice pool is 
penalized by two dice. Low-Integrity characters suffer a one-
die penalty per Integrity dot below 6, -1 for Integrity 5, -2 for 
Integrity 4, and so on. Horrors

If the abjuration is successful, all Conditions tagged by the They’re out there. Skulking just beyond the flickering light 
entity in the abjurist’s Willpower in yards are suppressed for of the street lamps, glimpsed for a second in the glare of high 
one day. On an exceptional success, the abjurist also becomes beams, felt in that tension between your shoulderblades. The 
an extra bane for the entity until its Conditions return. freaks. The monsters. The horrors. Some of them want to 

kill you, crack your bones and suck them dry. Some of them 
Warding and Binding want to ride you around like a puppet made of meat, or lay 

Occult lore is full of references to sealing locations from their young to incubate in your cavities. Some of them want 

spirits and ghosts, either to bind them inside or keep them stranger things: to build towers of bone and bile and babies’ 

from entering. Chalk circles, protective charms in windows, shoes, or to open a door between here and the howling 

even a simple horseshoe above a threshold. Most of these tales silence Outside. Still others don’t want anything from you 

have nothing substantial to them. Some are half-remembered at all; maybe they want revenge on the seven teenagers who 

references to bans or banes, or the weaknesses of supernatural left them to die in that boating accident, or just to tell their 

— but still physical — creatures. A few, though, describe true loved ones to move on with their lives. Nevertheless, they’re 

warding or binding rituals. out there, strange and wondrous and terrifying, waiting to 

Warding and binding are a combination of abjuration be discovered.

and an entity’s bane, empowered to create a temporary ban Creating Horrors for your Chronicles of Darkness stories 

that prevents the entity from crossing in to or out of an area is a multistep process not too dissimilar to a player creating 

defined by the ritualist. a character. This section provides a step-by-step breakdown 

Instead of confronting the entity directly as in abjura- of the process, along with benchmarks and guidelines for 

tion, the ritualist marks the boundary she intends to protect assigning Trait values. The guidelines presented here are 

with the entity’s bane. She doesn’t have to mark a complete just that: guidelines. Since Horrors aren’t required (or even 

boundary — her concept of the area she’s protecting is what’s expected) to have the same rough parity of ability that begin-

important. Marking doors and windows with lamb’s blood ning characters are, you should feel free to adjust or outright 

to keep out a spirit that can’t touch it will prevent that spirit ignore the Trait values presented here.

140 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Note also that these guidelines are for creating major 
Horrors: the core, recurring antagonists of your stories. To 
quickly create minions, zombie hordes, or even just terribly Horrors and Beats
potent evils that only have a limited screen time, see Brief 
Nightmares on p. 143. Likewise, these rules focus on corpo- The primary game-mechanical effect of 
real entities. If you’re creating a ghost, spirit, or a stranger Aspirations is to reward players for accomplishing 
sort of ephemeral Horror, see the Ephemeral Entities rules their characters’ goals with Beats. Since Storyteller 
on p. 122. characters don’t track Beats or Experiences, 

fulfilling an Aspiration instead grants the character 

Step One: Concept a point of Willpower. This point of Willpower is 
temporary and goes away at the end of the scene, 

The obvious first step when creating a Horror is to decide unless the Aspiration fulfilled was a Horror’s feed-
what sort of beast you’re creating. Chances are you already ing Aspiration, in which case the Willpower point 

lasts until spent.
have a starting point for this by the time you sit down to 
create a Horror. If you know your next story is going to be a The same rule applies any time a Storyteller 
tale of Faustian bargains and unholy sacrifices, for example, character, whether Horror or otherwise, would 
you probably know your Horror is going to be some sort of otherwise earn a Beat: resolving Conditions, turn-
demon or warlock. Will it be a wrathful brute, hungry to ing a failure into a dramatic failure, and so on.
share its rage with anyone it lures into its lair? Or will it be 
a subtle, deceitful thing, seducing the unwary into selling 
their souls? Folklore, mythology, and popular culture can all 
provide useful inspiration here. benchmarks to determine your Horror’s Potency, which in 

Consider also the role your Horror will play in the story. turn determines a suggested range of points you’ll spend on 
Most Chronicles of Darkness stories are about investigating, Attributes, Skills, Merits, and Dread Powers later. Potency 
encountering, and (hopefully) surviving the supernatural roughly corresponds with an ephemeral entity’s Rank, and 
rather than confronting it head on. Certainly monsters that with various traits possessed by the protagonists of other 
threaten death and dismemberment are a common feature, Chronicles of Darkness game lines.
but when designing your Horror, you might want to approach In addition to determining the number of points recommend-
it from an angle of unfolding mystery rather than what will ed for building a Horror, Potency confers the following effects:
make a cool fight scene. Willpower Capacity: Horrors add their Potency to their 

At this point, you should also give thought to your Horror’s Resolve + Composure to determine their Willpower.
Aspirations. Intelligent monsters usually have three, just like Willpower Expenditure: A Horror may spend 1 point of 
the players’ characters: typically one long term and two short Willpower in a turn per dot of Potency. It may not, however, 
term. Animalistic monsters usually have only one. If your spend more than 1 Willpower on the same effect. A Potency 
Horror must feed on something to survive, or is otherwise 3 Horror may not spend 3 Willpower points to give itself a +9 
compelled (such as a wendigo’s hunger for human flesh or a bonus on an action, for example, but it could spend those 3 
masked, undead slasher’s need to punish those who indulge Willpower points to bolster its action, increase its Defense, 
their Vices), that should definitely be one of its Aspirations. and activate a Dread Power in the same turn.
Further Aspirations give characters a point of entry toward Supernatural Tolerance: Horrors are more resistant 
understanding the Horror, but more importantly give the to the supernatural. Add the Horror’s Potency dots to any 
Horror much-needed depth and humanity. An Aspiration like contested roll to resist a supernatural power.
“do no harm to children” gives a monster a touch of sympathy, 
prompts questions that can help you fill out the Horror’s back-
story, and provides an avenue of investigation for characters. Step Three: Anchors
Unlike characters, who typically gain new Aspirations when Horrors typically have Virtues and Vices just like other 
they fulfill one, many Horrors keep the same Aspirations even characters, but what a monster considers “virtuous” or “vice 
after fulfilling them, or tweak them slightly to make them ridden” might vary significantly from what a human would. 
more broadly applicable. A vengeful revenant who kills her To make your Horror feel alien and incomprehensible, con-
murderers is more likely to replace that Aspiration with “kill sider strange Anchors like Murderous as a Virtue or Silent as 
anyone who reminds me of my murderers” than with “become a Vice. To highlight the core of humanity in even the most 
the crime boss of the port district.” twisted of Horror, follow the guidelines on p. 27 for choosing 

a player character’s Virtue and Vice.

Step Two: Potency Like Aspirations, Anchors should provide the characters 
with inroads for discovering, investigating, and ultimately sur-

Potency is a measure of a Horror’s raw supernatural power. viving the Horror, so pick Anchors that you’re sure will come 
Unlike most Traits, Potency is rated from 1 to 10 dots. All up in the story (or, alternately, craft the story to highlight the 
Horrors have a Potency rating of at least 1. Use the following Anchors of a Horror you’ve already created).

141 
Horrors



Potency
Potency Trait Limits** Attribute Dots Skill Dots Dread Powers Merit Dots
1 5 dots 15–18 10 3 3
2 6 dots 19–22 15 3 5
3 7 dots 23–26 20 3 7
4 8 dots 27–30 25 4 9
5 9 dots 31–34 30 4 11
6 10 dots 35–38 35 4 13
7 10 dots 39–42 40 5 15
8 10 dots 43–46 45 6 17
9 10 dots 47–50 50 7 19
10 10 dots 51+ 55 8 21
** These maximums represent permanent Trait dots, not Traits boosted by Dread Powers or other effects.

Step Four: Attributes dots, you can certainly use fewer than provided. However, 
you might also consider using the rules for Brief Nightmares, 

Unlike characters, Horrors do not prioritize Attribute below; they’re specifically designed to quickly create Horrors 
categories. They simply receive a lump sum of points, which with a more limited shtick.
you may spend as you see fit. Horrors generally work best 
and are most interesting when they have very clear, obvious Step Seven: Merits
strengths and weaknesses; jack-of-all-trades monsters with an 
even spread in all nine Attributes are boring and don’t pro- Assign Merits here, if your Horror needs them. Even if 
vide any signposts for how characters might deal with them. you’re creating a Horror that will be used in a fight, keep in 

Strongly consider identifying one or two Attributes as mind that piling combat-based Merits on top of Dread Powers 
the Horror’s greatest strength and putting the maximum can make for an especially vicious fight. Unless your Horror 
number of dots in those Traits. Likewise, consider one or is a complete loner, strongly consider favoring Social Merits 
two Attributes the Horror is lacking and leaving them at like Allies, Contacts, and Staff. These Merits provide more 
one or two dots. hooks to draw players into the monster’s orbit, and players 

may well have their own Merits they can turn against the 

Step Five: Dread Powers Horror’s. Remember also that these Merits can easily repre-
sent people enthralled, enslaved, or intimidated into serving 

Choose a number of Dread Powers as indicated by the the Horror: your monstrosity need not be a corporate hotshot 
Horror’s Potency. This step comes earlier in the process or an old-money aristocrat to have Retainers.
than you might expect because the inhuman powers of a On the flip side, don’t bother with Merits that simply give 
Horror are as core to its being as how strong or fast it is. flat, numerical bonuses to Traits, like Fleet of Foot or Giant. 
Some Dread Powers (e.g. Natural Weaponry) have multiple Since you’ll be deciding the Horror’s Speed, Size, and so on 
levels, like Style Merits. Each dot of such powers counts as directly, just make them a little bigger. Likewise, it’s a safe 
an additional Dread Power. assumption that most Horrors don’t need to buy Merits like 

Tolerance for Biology.

Step Six: Skills
Once again, don’t bother prioritizing Skill categories. Step Eight: Advantages

Assign the Skill Points derived from the Horror’s Potency as Finally, calculate your Horror’s Advantages. If any of the 
you see fit. Horrors don’t generally bother with Specialties; numbers derived here don’t feel right, by all means change 
just give them additional Skill dots. If you feel a Horror really them. The formulae for calculating Advantage are there to 
needs Skill Specialties, assign between three and five here as give you a ballpark range and are based on the values for 
well. If the Horror you’re creating is mindless or animalistic normal people. Horrors are anything but normal, though, so 
and you’re having trouble filling in the full allotment of Skill feel free to ignore the formulae and go with what feels right.

142 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Willpower Health
A Horror’s Willpower equals its Resolve + Composure + A Horror’s Health is its Size + Stamina.

Potency. Remember that a Horror may spend a number of 
Willpower points equal to its Potency each turn. Initiative Modifier
Integrity Initiative Modifier is equal to the Horror’s Dexterity + 

Composure.
Unless your Horror is a human being with some mon-

strous power, or has a part of its mind that is still human, it Defense
doesn’t have an Integrity score. If it is, its Integrity is whatever 

Defense is equal to the lower of a Horror’s Wits or 
seems appropriate. See p. 73 for more on Integrity and what 

Dexterity, plus its Athletics Skill.
different dot ratings indicate.

If you’re so inclined and have access to other Chronicles 
of Darkness rulebooks, you can even give your Horror an Weakness (Optional)
Integrity-analogue Trait like a vampire’s Humanity or a were- Not all Horrors have an explicit weakness, but many do. If 
wolf’s Harmony. You may have to adjust the various example it seems appropriate, give your Horror a Ban and/or a Bane, 
breaking points to fit your vision, but this can make your as described on p. 128. Use the Horror’s Potency as its Rank 
Horror seem even stranger and more alien. for determining the severity of the effect.

Size Finishing Touches
Your Horror can be as big or as small as you want. A Do one last check to make sure your Horror is doing what you 

typical adult human is Size 5; see p.26 for a chart of sample need it to in the story. If you anticipate the Horror confronting 
Sizes you can use as benchmarks. Remember that Size factors players head on, spot check its dice pools against the characters’; 
into your Horror’s Health as well. For really large, unusual if it looks like the Horror will completely outclass the players (e.g. 
Horrors like a sentient, hateful house, consider breaking its reducing even their best efforts to a chance die or rolling more 
Size (and therefore Health) into discrete chunks rather than than twice as many dice as the best dice pool the players can mus-
giving the Horror a single 75-box Health track. ter), either make sure the players have another way to survive the 

Horror or tone it down a bit. Conversely, if the players’ dice pools 
Speed seem overmatching, don’t be afraid to beef up the Horror a bit.

A Horror’s Speed is equal to Strength + Dexterity + Species 
Factor (a bonus based on creature type). A Horror can move Brief Nightmares
this many meters in one turn. Like Size, Speed can be whatever Not every lurking horror needs the full attention of the 
you feel appropriate: an average human is around Speed 8. process described above. Sometimes the Horror has minions 
Horrors can have negative Speed, but unless they’re completely that harry the characters, other times the threat is in the form 
immobile by nature (e.g. The Tree That Hates), they always have of a horde of hungry ghouls rather than a single beast, and 
a Speed of at least 1. other times the Horror is just a mindless brute that knows 

Some Horrors have multiple Speeds, depending on nothing but the chase and the kill. In these cases, you can 
their method of locomotion. For example, a giant bat-like quickly create a suitable Horror by just establishing a few 
monstrosity might be a swift and graceful flier, but clumsy dice pools.
and awkward on land. If your Horror can fly, swim, burrow, Just as with a full Horror, distill the monster’s concept 
etc., note those movement modes and Speed here as well. down to a few words — “flesh-hungry ghoul” or “albino sewer 
For more overtly supernatural forms of movement like turn- gator,” maybe. Give it a single Aspiration, probably some 
ing into fog or stepping through mirrors, see Dread Powers.

Nightmare Dice Pool
Horror Best  Worst  Willpower 
 Type Dice Pool Dice Pool All Other Pools Dread Powers /Scene
Minion 5 Chance 2 3 2
Horde 7 1 3 5 3
Lone Terror 10 2 5 7 6

143 
Horrors



form of feeding or compulsion. Then, decide whether it’s the 
minion of a greater threat, part of a horde, or a lone terror. 
Then refer to the chart at the bottom of the previous page to Horror Creation  
calculate its dice pools. Quick Reference

For the Horror’s best dice pool, describe two or three 
things that are its particular strengths. Don’t think in terms Here are the basic steps for creating a Horror.
of Attributes or Skills but in terms of actions. Don’t think STEP ONE: CONCEPT
“Brawl” or “Persuasion,” think “rip you apart” or “enthrall 
with a glance.” The Horror uses the listed dice pool for Come up with a concept and three Aspirations for 
those actions. Similarly, list one or two things the Horror the Horror.
is especially bad at and use the Worst Dice Pool column to STEP TWO: ANCHORS
determine its dice pools. For all other actions, the Horror Choose a Virtue and a Vice for the Horror.
uses the All Other Pools value. Then jot down a few Dread 
Powers to fine tune your Horror. If Dread Powers have a dice STEP THREE: POTENCY
pool to activate, use the Horror’s Best Dice Pool. Choose your Horror’s Potency. Note down 

Brief Nightmares don’t have a Willpower rating or Attribute, Skill, Merit, and Dread Power dots 
Willpower points. Instead, they can spend a number of determined by Potency.
Willpower per scene as indicated by the chart above. If they 
earn additional Willpower, as from fulfilling an Aspiration STEP FOUR: ATTRIBUTES
or resolving a Condition, they can spend those extra points, Assign Attributes based on Potency.
but only during the current scene. STEP FIVE: DREAD POWERS

Unless the Horror is going to engage in combat or resisted 
actions, that’s all you’ll need. If you find yourself needing Assign Dread Powers based on Potency.
Advantages like Health or Defense, use the following bench- STEP SIX: SKILLS
marks as guidelines. As always, adjust as you see fit; maybe 
you want your ghouls to die quickly, or your lumbering troll Assign Skills based on Potency. Choose three to 
to have lots of Health but little Defense. five Skill Specialties, if desired.

•	 Health equals 2 + Best Dice Pool STEP SEVEN: MERITS
Assign Merits based on Potency.

•	 Defense equals All Other Pools
STEP EIGHT: ADVANTAGES

•	 Speed equals 5 + All Other Pools or Best Dice Pool, Willpower is equal to Resolve + Composure + 
as appropriate Potency. Integrity is nonexistent or whatever is 

• appropriate. Size and Speed Factor are as appropri-
	 Armor Rating and Damage are determined by Dread ate. Health is Size + Stamina. Speed equals Strength 

Powers, if any. + Dexterity + Size. Initiative Modifier is Dexterity 
• + Composure. Defense is the lower of Wits or 
	 For resisted actions, use All Other Pools value as Dexterity, plus Athletics. Ban and/or Bane optional.

resistance Attribute unless Best Dice Pool or Worst 
Dice Pool actions would be more relevant.

Dread Powers souls might use Wits + Manipulation vs. Composure for its 
The things that stalk the night aren’t just stronger, Soul Thief power, while a desiccated, breath-stealing corpse 

smarter, and tougher than you. They have strange, terrible might use Strength + Occult vs. Stamina to pry its victims’ 
powers you’d count yourself lucky to walk away alive from. jaws apart and suck the breath from her lungs.
The sampling below is by no means exhaustive; feel free to Similarly, there aren’t restrictions on things like range or 
devise new Dread Powers as you need, reskin the mechanics other requirements for these powers. Again, look to your vi-
of those presented below into whatever you like, or raid the sion of the creature and establish any restrictions that makes 
powers of the monsters in other Chronicles of Darkness sense. That soul-buying demon above might need to engage 
games for inspiration. in reasonable conversation to trick mortals into bargaining 

These powers are presented without dice pools attached; away their souls (and thus can’t use Soul Thief in any situa-
when you choose a Dread Power for your Horror, think about tion where Social Maneuvering would be impossible), while 
how the creature uses that power and define an appropriate the breath-drinking corpse might have to establish a grapple 
dice pool. A silver-tongued demon who bargains for mortal before it can steal your soul along with your breath.

144 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



harm, lets the creature attack a character holding or standing 
BEASTMASTER near the device using an appropriate dice pool. The attack 

deals lethal damage and uses the device’s equipment bonus 
The creature has mastery over lesser beasts. By spending as a damage modifier.

1 Willpower, it can conjure up a swarm of vermin, small ani-
mals, fish, or birds as appropriate to its nature. These animals HOME GROUND
will obey its commands, and it can communicate with them 
clearly. It can also use this power on a single larger animal. The creature has a specific form of home ground on which 

it gains supernatural bonuses. This might be a certain build-
CHAMELEON HORROR ing or grove, or it could be the blood of a fresh kill or ash 

from a house it has burned down. While on its home ground, 
The creature can blend into its surrounding environ- the creature adds three dice to all its physical dice pools and 

ment, matching not just the colors but even the textures and Influence rolls, reduces all damage suffered by three, and 
characteristics of what lies around it; this applies a -3 penalty gains a +3 bonus to its rolls to resist supernatural effects.
on all rolls to perceive it, increased to -6 if it remains still.

HUNTER’S SENSES
DISCORPORATE

The creature has incredibly honed senses for a specific 
If the creature suffers damage that would kill it (or even if type of prey. Against that prey — redheads, teenagers, people 

it merely wants to escape the scene), it may discorporate: its descended from the men who killed it — the creature gains 
body dissolves into a huge swarm of vermin, carrion eaters, a +4 bonus to all Perception rolls, and applies 9-Again to 
or similar small, repellent beasts, running in all directions. If the dice pool.
even one escapes, the creature’s spirit survives. The creature 
may be able to reform in the next scene, or it might take an HYPNOTIC GAZE
hour, a day, or even longer to pull itself back together.

The creature’s gaze can charm and beguile. When meeting 
EYE SPY the target’s gaze, it can spend 1 Willpower and roll Presence 

+ Persuasion contested by the target’s Composure. If success-
The creature has a specific form of remote viewing it can ful, the creature counts as having a perfect impression against 

practice. It might be able to see through any surveillance the target for Social maneuvers until the end of the scene.
camera attached to a network it is accessing, or view from the 
eyes of a raven that it has touched; perhaps it can pluck one of IMMORTAL
its eyes out and leave the bloodied organ behind to observe. 
Using this ability requires the expenditure of 1 Willpower The creature isn’t bound by mortal laws of life and death. 
per hour. The creature remains aware of its surroundings It’s not indestructible, per se, but if it’s killed by anything other 
while surveilling. than its Bane, it just comes back in a later scene like noth-

ing happened. Even if it’s destroyed with its Bane, it’s never 
FIRE ELEMENTAL really gone — some accursed ritual, astrological conjunction, 

or freak occurrence can always bring the creature back for 
The creature’s body is made of fire, or perhaps it can a sequel story.

cause its flesh to ignite and char with horrific burns. Anyone 
within a yard of it suffers three points of lethal damage per INFLUENCE  
turn from the blaze. The creature is immune to damage from (• TO •••••)
heat or fire.

Much like a spirit or ghost, this Horror has Influence over 
GREMLIN a certain phenomenon. Using Influence costs Willpower 

instead of Essence and, unless the activation is directly op-
Mechanical and electrical devices fail in the creature’s posed by a character, doesn’t require a roll. For contested or 

presence. Lights flicker, cell phones get no reception, televi- resisted actions, decide on an Attribute + Skill dice pool that 
sions and machinery randomly turn on and off. In addition, fits with the monster’s nature.
the creature may spend 1 Willpower to either disable any 
device with mechanical or electrical components or seize 
control of such a device. This effect can turn an equipment 
bonus into a penalty or, if the device is capable of causing 

145 
Horrors



JUMP SCARE
The creature appears suddenly or lurches into 

abrupt action just when you thought it was down for 
the count. By spending 1 Willpower, the creature may 
resolve the Shaken condition on another character, 
choosing which action will automatically fail. The 
character still earns a Beat as normal. Alternately, 
the creature may spend 1 Willpower to turn the 
automatic failure caused by a character resolving the 
Shaken Condition into a dramatic failure. In this case, 
the character earns two Beats (one for resolving the 
Condition, one for the dramatic failure).

KNOW SOUL
The creature can see into the depths of its victim’s 

soul. By spending 1 Willpower, it automatically learns 
the victim’s Virtue, Vice, Aspirations, and current 
Integrity. By spending an additional Willpower point, 
it learns the circumstances of the character’s most 
recent failed breaking point. Subsequent Willpower 
points reveal older breaking points. If the creature 
uses its knowledge against the victim, it earns an ex-
ceptional success on a roll of three successes or more.

MADNESS  
AND TERROR

The monster’s gaze (or perhaps its voice, touch, 
or toxic blood) induces madness and terror in its 
victims. By expending 1 Willpower and making a roll 
of an appropriate dice pool contested by the victim’s 
Composure, the Horror may inflict one of the fol-
lowing Conditions on the victim: Guilty, Shaken, or 
Spooked. For 3 Willpower it may instead inflict the 
Broken, Fugue, or Madness Conditions.

MAZE
The creature can turn a structure into something 

out of an M. C. Escher painting, creating an insane 
maze. By spending 3 Willpower and touching the 
building, it turns the interior chambers into a tangled 
mess of corridors and rooms that lead back on them-
selves; this effect lasts for an hour. Anyone other 
than the creature who attempts to move through the 
building must succeed at a Wits + Composure check 
minus the creature’s Resolve each time they attempt 
to leave the area or progress through it to somewhere 
specific; if they fail they are unable to progress and 
simply get more lost.

146 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



MIRACLE PRODIGIOUS LEAP
The monster is capable of performing miraculous feats The creature can make great, bounding leaps; by spending 

at the request of humans. Miracles include, but aren’t neces- 1 Willpower, it can jump about four stories straight up or 
sarily limited to: across a six-lane highway (or the equivalent distance).
•	 Removing (or applying) any Condition or Tilt (or 

similar affliction not modeled by these mechanics). REALITY STUTTER
•	 Granting any Merit, Skill, or Attribute at 5 dots. The creature’s presence sets reality stuttering and convuls-
•	 Causing someone to die. ing, allowing it to flicker from place to place. By reflexively 

spending 1 Willpower when it moves, the creature can trans-
•	 Fulfilling an Aspiration of the victim. locate itself to any location it can see up to its Speed in meters 

away, seeming to observers to just spasm in and out of reality 
The Horror cannot do any of these things unless explicitly 

as it goes. Doing so adds +2 to its Defense for the turn.
asked to by a living human being. Some Horrors can grant vir-
tually any wish imaginable, others might only be able to grant 
one very specific request. Sometimes it’s not the monster itself REGENERATE (• TO •••••)
that grants the wish, but a part of its body; demon blood might 
cure all sickness, while the bile that seeps from the bandages The creature possesses incredible powers of regeneration. 
of the One-Eyed King ensures that you’ll never be poor again. As a reflexive action once per turn, the creature can spend 1 
Most Horrors can only grant one to three wishes to a given Willpower per dot in the Regenerate Dread Power, healing 
person, and wishing for more wishes is, of course, verboten. one point of lethal damage or two points of bashing damage 

Finally, all magic of this sort comes with a price. When the for each Willpower expended in this way.
Horror grants a victim’s wish, one of the victim’s Aspirations 
is destroyed utterly. The character will never be able to fulfill SKIN-TAKER
it or replace it with another Aspiration.

The creature can steal the face and skin of another. It must 
MIST FORM kill the victim first, then spend 2 Willpower and merge the 

features of the corpse with its own. The change is permanent; 
The creature can turn itself into a gaseous form by spend- it cannot return to an earlier face and appearance.

ing 1 Willpower, whether becoming pure air, some sort of 
misty miasma, a cloud of blowing leaves, or a swarm of crows. SNARE
This form lasts for a scene or until the creature leaves it, 
allowing it to fly at its base Speed, slip through cracks, and 

The creature can create a snare that will entrap victims, 
flow around obstacles.

whether sticky webs, grasping roots or whipping metal cables. 
By spending 1 Willpower, the creature denotes an area of up 

NATURAL WEAPONS to 10 square yards, and can attempt to grapple any victims in 
(• TO •••) the area using the snare, using its own Attributes and Skills 

with a +3 bonus to the dice pool.
The creature is armed with formidable natural weaponry, 

whether savage jaws, rending talons, bony spurs, or metallic SOUL THIEF
blades. The weaponry has a weapon modifier and armor-
piercing quality equal to the number of dots in this Dread The creature is capable of stealing human souls, perhaps 
Power. If the creature’s natural weaponry includes a bite, it for sustenance, perhaps just for its own sick amusement. 
doesn’t need to establish a grapple in order to bite. When you give a creature this Dread Power, specify some 

restriction or condition that it must fulfill to steal a soul; 
NUMEN maybe it has to trick the victim into offering it up willingly, or 

has to drag its victim back to its lair and attach him to some 
In lieu of a Dread Power, the creature may select a Numen infernal device to extract the soul. Once the restriction is met, 

from the Ephemeral Entities rules (see p. 136). The Numen the creature may spend 3 Willpower and roll an appropriate 
costs Willpower instead of Essence, and if it has a dice pool, dice pool, contested by the victim’s Resolve. If the creature 
select an appropriate Attribute + Skill for the Horror. succeeds, it steals the victim’s soul and inflicts the Soulless 

Condition. The victim (or her friends) may be able to find 
a way to restore her soul — perhaps by killing the creature, 

147 
Horrors



perhaps by stealing into its lair and finding the correct urn — and ask for assistance, usually in the form of a ride home or 
out of a collection of hundreds. access to a telephone. The witness finds herself overcome by 

intense feelings of dread, and the longer she resists acquiescing 
SURPRISE ENTRANCE to the children’s’ requests, the angrier they seem to get. The 

story culminates with a sudden realization that the children’s’ 
eyes are solid, unrelieved, black, at which point the witness 

No matter how secure its victims think they are, by 
flees. So far no one has posted a story in which the encounter 

spending 1 Willpower the creature may suddenly appear in 
ends with someone actually helping the children, so naturally 

the scene. Perhaps it can manifest out of higher-dimensional 
the Internet assumes the worst.

space via any right angle, emerge from any reflective surface, 
Description: Black-Eyed children look to be anywhere 

or it can simply burst through the wall. Any character wit-
between seven and 13 years old. They almost always appear 

nessing this entrance must succeed on a reflexive Resolve + 
in pairs, or sometimes groups of three, and usually look dis-

Composure roll or gain the Shaken Condition.
similar enough from each other to discount the possibility 

If the characters have actively taken appropriate measures 
that they’re related. They’re usually dressed in dark-colored 

to keep the Horror out (barring and locking the door, smash-
hoodies, jeans, and tennis shoes, though the older-appearing 

ing all the mirrors they can find, etc.) it will take the creature 
ones are sometimes described as looking vaguely “goth” or as 

one full turn to break through, giving the characters time to 
wearing suits or formalwear. They’re uniformly pale or ashen 

react. If not, it’s just there as a reflexive action and can take 
complexioned, and they speak very precisely, with a confidence 

one more action before anyone can react.
not often heard from children talking to strange adults. As the 
name suggests, their most distinctive feature is their solid black 

TOXIC (• OR ••) eyes, undifferentiated across sclera, iris, and pupil.
Storytelling Hints: Given their pallor, adult mannerisms, 

The creature has a poisonous or diseased bite, or per- and frequent insistence on being invited into homes or cars, 
haps its very presence is pestilential. The one-dot version Black-Eyed Kids are often identified as vampires. They’re not. 
of this Dread Power inflicts the moderate version of either You’ve heard of Men in Black, those strange, probably not 
the Poisoned or Sick Tilts; the two-dot version inflicts the human visitors who show up in the wake of paranormal expe-
grave version of the Tilt. This can either happen automati- riences and threaten witnesses into silence? Black-Eyed Kids 
cally when the creature inflicts damage, or it can spend 1 are the juvenile form. A few years ago, an accident breached 
Willpower and roll an appropriate dice pool contested by one of their brood nests or spawning chambers or wherever 
the victim’s Stamina, depending on the nature of the Horror. the Men in Black come from, and about a dozen or so larval 

Men in Black stumbled blinkingly out into the sunlight. 
UNBREAKABLE (Despite the name “Men” in Black, the Black-Eyed Kids are 

equally divided between boys, girls, and androgyne children.) 
They really do just want someone to take them home, or 

The creature is nearly indestructible. Any attack that does 
at least make contact with whatever passes for a controlling 

not score an exceptional success inflicts only a single point 
intelligence among the Men in Black. The problem is that 

of bashing damage. Exceptional successes inflict damage as 
MIBs are specifically designed to give off a psychic field of fear, 

normal. If the creature has a weakness of some sort, attacks 
revulsion, and menace, the better to intimidate people into 

incorporating that weakness bypass this power.
silence, and the kids don’t know how to turn that off. Every 
interaction with them thus becomes a horrific experience, 

WALL CLIMB and the kids grow more and more frustrated as their simple 
requests for aid go unheeded. If they ever find someone who 

The creature can walk up walls or even cling to the ceiling, can overcome their fear and actually get them home, though, 
and can move its full Speed while doing so. it’s anyone’s guess how the adult Men in Black would react.

Black-Eyed Kids Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 4, 
“Please ma’am, we just need to come in for a moment to use your Resolve 3 

phone. You needn’t be afraid. We’re just little children.” Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, 
Background: Though they echo older tales of monsters Stamina 2

that use innocent guises to prey on the unwary, Black-Eyed Kids Social Attributes: Presence 4, Manipulation 3, 
are a recent phenomenon. Stories of encounters with strangely Composure 1
articulate, menacing children first surfaced on Internet message Mental Skills: Occult 1
boards devoted to paranormal phenomena. According to the Physical Skills: Athletics 1, Stealth 3
predominant narrative, the children appear unexpectedly in 
a place they shouldn’t be — in a parking garage at three in the Social Skills: Intimidation 3, Subterfuge 2
morning, at the door of a farmhouse miles away from anything Merits: Pusher, Striking Looks •

148 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Potency: 1 and a dozen or more of the things can drag down even the 
Willpower: 4 strongest by sheer weight of numbers.

Virtue: Determined Sometimes there’s a guiding intelligence behind the 
Horde: a witch might raise up an army of undead servants, 

Vice: Impatient or a demon might lay a curse on a community. More often, 
Aspiration: To get home. though, the dead simply rise and shamble, hungry for flesh, 
Initiative: 4 with no discernible motivation. Maybe the town’s cemetery 

is cursed ground, or maybe a virus escapes from a military 
Defense: 4 transport truck. Sometimes it just happens, and all you can 
Speed: 9 hope to do is hole up and survive.
Health: 6 Description: The classic zombie horde is made up of a 

Bans: Black-Eyed Kids cannot enter a home or mass of shambling, moaning corpses, usually in various stages 
vehicle without being invited. of decomposition and often bearing obviously-fatal wounds. 

They wander aimlessly, shuffling about with no clear purpose 
Banes: Salt until they scent fresh, living meat. Once they become aware 
Dread Powers: Hypnotic Gaze, Madness and of prey, they might burst into frantic activity, like a crocodile, 
Terror, Surprise Entrance or they might never vary their plodding, inexorable pace; 

but either way, if you let them get close, if you let your guard 

The Horde down for even a second, you’re dead.
That’s the classic zombie horde, but with just a few small 

Low, incessant moaning changes to dice pools and Dread Powers, the Horde pulls double 
Background: When there’s no more room in hell, the duty as modern “fast” zombies, a hive of monstrous insects, or 

dead will walk the earth. That’s how the old saying goes, a pack of weird, wormlike hunters from beneath the ground. 
and whether it’s true or not, sometimes the earth splits, Maybe your Horde is the result of a virus that drives living people 
coffins crack, and the unquiet dead crawl out of the ground to phenomenal heights of rage, or maybe it’s some swarm of 
to prey on the living. Individually, they’re barely any threat: Precambrian horrors unearthed from an underground vault.
slow and stumbling, with scarcely animal-level intelligence. Storytelling Hints: The trick to using the Horde is that 
The problem is that they’re never encountered individually, it’s not really a “monster” in the same sense that a murderous 

149 
Horrors



ghost or a hungry werewolf is. The Horde isn’t an antago-
nist, it’s an environmental threat; use it to force characters 
together that otherwise wouldn’t interact, whether due to 
circumstances or deliberate avoidance. The constant threats New Environmental Tilt:  
of the Horde breaking through the defenses, preventing Zombies!
characters from going out and gathering supplies, or reaching 
safety acts as a stressor, highlighting personal motivations and The Horde Traits presented here work for when 
driving conflict. When you’re developing a story involving you need to focus in on an action scene involv-

ing a few characters and a modest number of 
the Horde, look at your characters’ (both the players and your zombies, but when you want to highlight the 
Storyteller characters) Virtues, Vices, and Aspirations. Look sheer, swarming mass of the walking dead, they’re 
for characters whose Anchors are, if not directly opposed, not practical. This Tilt represents any area that’s 
at least orthogonal to each other. Find opportunities to put packed full of zombies or similar monsters.
those characters together in scenes with real stakes: gathering 
supplies, pushing back a zombie siege, or maybe just patch- Effects: Characters moving through the Horde are 

slowed by the mindless, grasping hands and sheer 
ing up the wounded. Put their Aspirations in jeopardy, or press of decomposing bodies. Within the area 
make them able to be realized only at risk to the rest of the affected by the Tilt, characters lose their bonus to 
characters. The Horde isn’t the frying pan or the fire; it’s the Speed (so normal humans have a Speed equal 
pressure cooker. to Strength + Dexterity). Characters who move 

With the popularity of zombie apocalypse fiction in at anything less than full speed (that is, using an 
mainstream media, it’s tempting to see end of the world Instant action to run) are subject to an attack using 
scenarios and zombies as going hand in hand. While you can the Horde’s best dice pool. An exceptional suc-
certainly tell zombie apocalypse stories with the Chronicles cess on this attack inflicts the Knocked Down Tilt.
of Darkness, you don’t have to immediately reach for the In addition, if the zombies are especially ripe, 
“blow up the world” button to use the Horde. Smaller moving through the area might require characters 
outbreaks of the undead, either in remote locations or bad to make a reflexive Stamina + Composure roll 
neighborhoods suffering from urban decay, can create the every minute or suffer the moderate version of the 
same feeling of isolation. The ubiquity of cell phones and Sick Tilt.
internet connections can make it trickier, but anything from Causing the Tilt: Any large group of mostly-
bad weather, to power failures, to larger disasters that jam passive monsters could cause this Tilt. It also works 
up phone lines and hinder emergency response services can for modeling the effects of being caught up in a 
deal with those problems. large riot or similar crush of humanity.

Ending the Tilt: The whole point of the Tilt is that 
Best At (7 dice): Sniffing out humans, dragging it represents too many zombies to fight effectively, 
you down by sheer weight of numbers, anything but characters might be able to draw the Horde 
that benefits from a massive wall of flesh. off (maybe by firing guns or operating loud, 
Worst At (1 Die): Acting alone, being fast or heavy machinery elsewhere), or drive them back if 
clever. the Horde suffers from a Bane (if your zombies are 

afraid of fire, for example, Molotov cocktails or 
Willpower/Scene: 3 simply carrying torches might disperse them).
Aspiration: To feast on the flesh of the living.
Initiative: 1
Defense: 3
Speed: 5
Health: 7 The House That Hates
Weapons/Attacks: <Muffled screams, phantom footsteps, and doors slamming>

Background: Every neighborhood has stories of a 
Type Damage Range Dice Pool haunted house. Usually it’s the one at the end of the street, 

dilapidated if not outright falling apart, with an overgrown 
Grapple 0B Melee 7 (in group), 1 

(alone) lawn and maybe a creepy old witch or never-convicted axe 
murderer who lives there. Most of the time, it’s just local 

Bite 2L Melee 7 (in group), 1 folklore. Sometimes, the house really is haunted by a restless 
(alone) shade, or even by some stranger denizen of the ephemeral 

Banes: Attacks to the head realms. But every once in a while, that creepy house at the 
Dread Powers: Hunter’s Senses (human flesh), end of the street is actually the House That Hates.
Natural Weapons ••, Toxic •, Unbreakable The House That Hates can appear anywhere in the 

world — or else multiple Houses exist, or perhaps an ordinary 

150 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



building can become aware and malevolent through some 
unknown process. Different occultists have different theories, 
but the manifestations seem to have enough commonality 
to suggest that they’re all linked. Typically, the first time “Just Move Out!”
anyone in the neighborhood notices the House That Hates It’s a common refrain leveled at haunted-house 
is when a For Sale sign appears in the yard. The House always stories: why don’t the characters simply leave the 
sells for way less than market value, which seems to attract place where the haunting is happening and never 
prospective buyers despite the state of the structure and the look back? Particularly with genre-savvy players, 
creepy vibe it gives off. (The rising trend of “house flippers” the first unexplained footsteps or slammed door 
who buy cheap, dilapidated houses in order to renovate and may have them reaching for the kerosene and 
resell at a significant profit has been a great boon to the matches.
House That Hates.) If you’re kicking off a chronicle with a location-

Once a new tenant has moved in, the House begins its based story like the House That Hates, you can 
slow torments. It works subtly at first, with minor manifesta- bake a solution into the premise of the chronicle: 
tions that startle, unsettle, and stress, but it gradually ramps maybe all the players have to create members 
up to violent assaults, terrifying visions, and grisly phenomena of an extended family with the restriction that no 
like bleeding walls and manifest “spirits” of its previously one can have more than two dots in Resources 

— when the alternative is living on the streets, it 
tortured victims. Once all of its inhabitants are dead or becomes harder to justify abandoning a house at 
insane, the House folds in on itself and vanishes — or else it the first sign of strangeness.
simply goes dormant, waiting for a new buyer or perhaps an 
inheritor to show up. If that solution is untenable and players insist on 

Description: The House typically appears as a dilapidated, playing “genre aware,” that can be fine, too. 
but otherwise unremarkable, house in whatever architectural Destruction of property is a crime, and even if you 

own the House you can bet that police will look 
style is predominate in the area. It might be one or two into any suspicious fires or unplanned demolition. 
stories, but it usually appears big enough for a family of five Arson investigation techniques are very sophisti-
to live in comfortably. Though the house itself is never in cated these days, and good luck convincing the 
anything other than a state of disrepair, it manifests at least insurance adjustors that you burned your house 
one feature tailored to the tastes of its focal victim (see below). down to destroy the spirits within rather than col-
For example, if the House fixates on a chef, it might boast a lect a payout. You can spin an entire chronicle out 
spacious and surprisingly modern kitchen, while if it chooses of dealing with the fallout of destroying a mani-
a kid that loves to explore it might boast secret tunnels, hid- festation of the House, and that’s before taking into 
den rooms, and a cavernous basement. account the fact that the House itself might come 

The House’s interior floorplan is infinitely configurable looking for revenge.
and is not limited to its apparent exterior dimensions. 
Sometimes the House manifests stairs to a second story, 
despite seeming to be a single-level ranch home, or buds hunters, most of whom are woefully unprepared to deal with 
off rooms where no rooms were before. Part of the House’s a malevolent building. In some cases, the House has actually 
magic keeps its inhabitants from thinking of this as strange, chosen one such investigator as its focal victim. This usually 
at least until the House has progressed to full-on supernatural involves the House tailoring its “haunting” manifestations 
manifestations. to attract the ghost hunter.

Storytelling Hints: Each time the House That Hates Destroying a particular manifestation of the House 
welcomes new inhabitants, it chooses one (very rarely two, That Hates isn’t difficult; it is, after all, just a house. Fire, a 
and only if they share a strong bond) as its “focal victim.” backhoe, in extreme cases sledgehammers and crowbars are 
This person is the target of most of the House’s torments, enough to dismantle the building’s shell, but all that does 
with the specific goal of driving him or her mad with terror. is force the House to manifest somewhere else. The House 
The House is quite content to kill — usually in a spectacular, has been known to take revenge on those who destroy its 
bloody fashion — but always in service of inflicting breaking manifestations, choosing loved ones as new focal victims. 
points on the focal victim. The House seems to feed on the The only way to actually destroy the House is for the focal 
psychological trauma, and its entire activity cycle is devoted victim themselves to find the “core” of the House and destroy 
to reducing the focal victim to 0 Integrity. Focal victims who it. The nature of the House’s core is dependent on the fo-
lose their last Integrity dot to the House That Hates are cal victim and the specific manifestation of the House, but 
consumed, never to be seen again, at which point the House it always involves dredging up the victim’s deepest traumas 
chooses a new focal victim. and personal failings.

Because it’s so easily mistaken for a haunting, The House 
That Hates tends to attract paranormal researchers and ghost 

151 
Horrors



Best At (10 Dice): Being scary and disorient- identified as a sign of his infernal nature, usually with an 
ing, lashing out with household appliances, luring Intelligence + Occult-based research action.
people in and keeping them there. Storytelling Hints: The Jersey Devil represents a clas-
Worst At (2 Dice): Anything but being a house. sic cautionary monster who lures “sinners” to their dooms 

Aspiration: To drive its tenants mad with terror. through their own actions. His victims are teenagers engaged in 
activities that society deems inappropriate: excessive drinking, 

Willpower/Scene: 6 casual promiscuity, and drug use. In a typical horror movie, 
Structure: 45 (specific structures like walls, floors, you’d see him messily kill his way through a whole host of more 
and doors have Hardness appropriate to the material) or less likable “bad kids” before the “good kids” uncover his 
Weapons/Attacks: weakness and drive him off. It’s up to you how faithfully you 

want to follow that narrative or whether you want to subvert 
Dice the expectation.

Type Damage Range Pool Special Actually fighting the Jersey Devil is a difficult prospect, 
Telekinetic 2L 5/10/20 10 not because he’s incredibly powerful or dangerous but be-
cutlery dice cause his preferred hunting grounds are the very definition 
Strangling 2B Melee 10 grap- of a target-rich environment. If one group of would-be victims 
cords dice ples starts making too much trouble, hundreds, if not thousands 

Dread Powers: Eye Spy, Home Ground, more, are waiting just up the beach. Stories involving the 
Influence (Fear) •••, Madness and Terror, Snare Devil, then, tend to take one of a few forms; either the char-

acters are all people who have made deals with the Jersey 

Jersey Devil Devil and are trying to survive his assaults, or they’re trying 
to find a way to stop the Devil from claiming their friends’ 

“Rage. Just sign there and we got us a deal. This is gonna be souls. These approaches aren’t mutually exclusive, of course, 
sick, brah.” but those are the two main arcs for a story involving the Devil.

Background: He appears up and down the coast. Mostly Characters have a few options when it comes to escaping the 
the Jersey Shore, but he’s been sighted as far south as the Devil’s clutches. Discovering his Bane and using it to kill him 
Outer Banks, even at Spring Break events in Mexico or renders null and void any contract he hasn’t yet collected on, 
Barbados. Anywhere teenagers congregate near sand and sea but any soul he’s already claimed is gone. Moreover, anything 
to get wrecked and hook up, the Jersey Devil is there, offering the Devil granted as part of the contract, whether that’s cash 
the best drugs, the hottest parties, anything your heart desires. money or a cure for terminal illness, also goes away. The only 
And the cost? Don’t worry about the cost. You’re young and way to undo damage the Devil has already done, or restore souls 
hot and you’re going to live forever. he’s already taken, is to make those the terms of a contract. It’s 

The Jersey Devil is a decidedly modern manifestation, but bad business sense to trade a half-dozen souls for one, but the 
if you dig back through the lore, you’ll find similar figures all Devil seems to be more interested in the quality of the souls than 
throughout history. The Devil seems to be drawn to human the quantity, and a soul willing to sacrifice themselves is usually 
festivities, especially those held near the seaside. Perhaps the intriguing enough to make the Devil agree.
liminal nature of the shoreline calls to him, or perhaps the 
concentrated energy of human celebration calls to his nature Mental Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 2, 
as a tempter and a trickster. Or maybe it’s just that stoned, Resolve 3
horny teenagers are piss-poor negotiators. Either way, once Physical Attributes: Strength 7, Dexterity 4, 
you’ve accepted his terms and sealed the contract with a Stamina 6
body shot, your soul is forfeit upon your death, and the Devil Social Attributes: Presence 5, Manipulation 9, 
isn’t patient when it comes to collecting. Those who sign his Composure 4
contracts end up meeting apparently-accidental but ironically-
appropriate ends — the lush drowns doing a keg stand, the Mental Skills: Computers 1
pickup artist dies in some bizarre sexual misadventure, and Physical Skills: Athletics 4, Brawl 3, Drive 2, 
so on — but the Devil isn’t averse to getting his own hands Stealth 2, Weaponry 1
bloody if someone comes between him and his meal. Social Skills: Empathy 2, Intimidation 3, 

Description: The Jersey Devil looks like the prototypi- Socialize 4, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 8
cal Jersey Shore bro: spray tan, a body that bespeaks hours Merits: Barfly, Fast-Talking ••••, Fixer, Pusher, 
at the gym every day, frosted tips, the works. He always has Striking Looks ••, 
a tell somewhere about his person: maybe a tattoo of the Potency: 5
Devils hockey team’s mascot, maybe taloned feet stuffed into 
his beach shoes, maybe breath that always smells slightly of Willpower: 12
brimstone, no matter how many tequila shooters he slams. Virtue: Wicked
Whatever the tell is, it’s always something that can be Vice: Curious

152 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



Aspirations: To collect souls, to have raging par- light. Despite the name, its wings, which stretch 30 feet from 
ties, to find the one soul that truly captivates him. tip to tip, are more birdlike than mothlike, but they do have 
Initiative: 8 patterns resembling a grey moth’s.

Defense: 6 The Mothman is rarely described as aggressive, but it has 
been reported to attack people, especially couples, in cars. 

Speed: 16 Its spindly fingers end in sharp claws, and the edges of its 
Health: 11 wings are capable of lacerating anything softer than granite. 
Weapons/Attacks: Its voice is a harsh, staccato buzz, almost like a swarm of 

crickets vibrating in unison.
Type Damage Range Dice Pool Storytelling Hints: The Mothman is like a weird-fiction 
Nasty knife 2L Melee 8 version of the Apple of Discord: drop it into a situation and 

watch everything fall to chaos. The Mothman never seems 
Big, meaty 0L Melee 10
fists to take pleasure in the chaos it causes, but inevitably, what-

ever it says to those who encounter it leads to conflict and 
Bans: The Jersey Devil can never renege on a confrontation. It works best as a catalyst in a story already 
contract. fraught with secrets: a conspiracy theory narrative, perhaps, 
Banes: Pure seawater no human has swum in. or one that involves lots of politics and scheming. Avoid the 
Dread Powers: Immortal, Know Soul, Miracle, impulse to make the Mothman a “clue dispenser,” though. 
Soul-Thief It’s unpredictable and never shows up when you go looking 

for it. Moreover, the more often someone receives its wisdom, 

Mothman the more severe the chaos the creature’s answers bring.

Seven... three... six. Magnesium. Carbon. Coefficient of friction. Mental Attributes: Intelligence 6, Wits 3, 
Background: In 1959, the United States Army responded Resolve 4

to reports of an explosion at a munitions factory in Tennessee. Physical Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 7, 
Russian sabotage was suspected, but upon investigation the Stamina 4
soldiers found no trace of accelerants and no evidence of an Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 1, 
explosive device. What they did find was a strange creature, Composure 4
roughly humanoid but nearly 10 feet tall, with a wingspan nearly 
triple that. The creature was injured and apparently intelligent, Mental Skills: Academics 3, Politics 3, Science 3
though it responded to attempts at communication with nothing Physical Skills: Athletics 3, Brawl 3, Survival 3
more than a string of numbers. It wasn’t until days later, when Social Skills: Expression 2
the creature had been safely transported to Nevada for study and Merits: Encyclopedic Knowledge, Eidetic 
eventual dissection, that some bright young radio operator realized Memory, Hardy •••
that the numbers the creature had recited were a frequency — a 
frequency that led the FBI directly to a cell of Soviet sleeper agents. Potency: 3

Plans for dissection were put on hold, naturally. While no Willpower: 11
real communication with the creature was ever established, Virtue: Precise
over the next seven years its mutterings uncovered spy rings, Vice: Skittish
revealed traitors, and even solved an engineering problem 
in the development of the SR-71 reconnaissance aircraft. It Aspirations: To answer questions.
also revealed four infidelities, three drinking problems, and Initiative: 11
a brigadier general’s habit of accepting bribes from arms Defense: 6
manufacturers. In 1966, during the commotion following 
one of the Mothman’s revelations, the creature escaped. It’s Speed: 10, 25 (flying)
been sighted here and there in the decades since, mostly in Health: 9
the West Virginia/Kentucky/Tennessee area. Its most famous Weapons/Attacks:
appearance was in Point Pleasant, West Virginia from 1966 
to 1967, when it “predicted” the collapse of the Silver Bridge, Dice 
but digging into local newspaper accounts and folklore reveals Type Damage Range Pool Special
dozens of other sightings. In all cases, the Mothman’s cryptic Claws 1L Melee 7
communications answer a question weighing heavily on the wit- Razor 0L Melee 7 Inflicts 
ness, but in a manner that seems calculated to create discord. Wings Bleeding (as 

Description: The Mothman is roughly man shaped (al- Poisoned 
beit androgynous) and covered with fine, grayish-white fur Tilt)
or feathers. Its head is disproportionately small, atop a long, Dread Powers: Chameleon Horror, Hypnotic 
sinuous neck, and its eyes flash red in even the dimmest Gaze, Natural Weapons •

153 
Horrors



Mr. Let-Me-In With a small change to his M.O., Mr. Let-Me-In can 
become more of a looming threat that drives a story; instead 

He’s genteel and well-mannered of leaving those who refuse to let him in in peace, he returns 
And ever so polite another night. At first, perhaps it’s every few days, gradually 
But once you let him in your home increasing in frequency until he’s hammering on the door 
You’re in for quite a fright! every night, several times a night, making it nearly impossible 
Background: As near as anybody can tell, the legend to get any restful sleep (and thus regain Willpower). As stress 

started somewhere around Kennebunkport, Maine in the and fatigue set in, Mr. Let-Me-In becomes the catalyst for 
early 70s. Or at least, that’s the first time anyone ever wrote psychological drama and inter-character conflict.
anything down about Mr. Let-Me-In (sometimes called 
the Knocker, the Doorbell Killer, or Charlie Knox), in a Mental Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 4, 
Halloween-themed local-interest story in the York County Resolve 3
Coast Star. In that original version, a madman escaped from Physical Attributes: Strength 6, Dexterity 4, 
a local lunatic asylum (never mind that there isn’t an asylum Stamina 4
within 30 miles of Kennebunkport) and went wandering Social Attributes: Presence 5, Manipulation 6, 
through town, knocking on doors and calling out, “Let me Composure 3
in!” Conditioned by the rules of the asylum, he wouldn’t 
dare break in, but if anyone was foolish enough to heed his Mental Skills: Crafts 2
request, he’d bludgeon everyone in the house to death. Physical Skills: Brawl 8, Stealth 4, Weaponry 6

The story spread down I-95, mutating as it went. Social Skills: Intimidation 3, Persuasion 2
Sometimes Mr. Let-Me-In was said to be the vengeful ghost Merits: Demolisher ••, Heavy Weapons ••••, 
of a man who froze to death on the front yard while a kegger Iron Stamina ••
raged inside. Other times he was the devil himself, or at least 
one of his servants, sent to drag souls off to hell. Most of the Potency: 4
time, the story is just that: easily disproven by even cursory Willpower: 10
research into local records. About every six years, though, Virtue: Polite
you’ll find something to the story — a spate of home invasions 
with no sign of forced entry, or records of 911 calls reporting Vice: Murderous
harassment by someone pounding on the door all night long. Aspiration: To bash out brains.
Sometimes it’s not even houses, sometimes police find a car Initiative: 7
on the side of the highway, the passenger door wide open Defense: 4
and the driver’s skull little more than a red pulp. The verified 
reports spread steadily southward, as though Mr. Let-Me-In Speed: 15
is going somewhere. Health: 9

Appearance: The stories all describe Mr. Let-Me-In as a Weapons/Attacks:
small, round man, dressed in business attire roughly 20 years 
out of date, with pasty skin and a too-wide smile beneath a Dice 
dapper pencil moustache. Some of the stories (namely the Type Damage Range Pool
ones that ascribe him supernatural origins) say that this is just Convenient 2L Melee 12
a disguise, and that if you peel of his face you’ll find noth- heavy object
ing but emptiness. A few eyewitness accounts by survivors Bans: Mr. Let-Me-In cannot enter a home unless 
describe him as “odd,” or somehow slightly off-kilter. someone inside opens the door for him.

Storytelling Hints: Because he chooses his victims seem- Dread Powers: Home Ground, Jump Scare, 
ingly at random and doesn’t stalk them extensively, Mr. Maze, Surprise Entrance
Let-Me-In works best as a Horror for a more proactive group 
of occult investigators. Investigation actions can establish a 
pattern of attacks, possibly even predict future victims before Nibbles the Clown
they’re targeted. Actually dealing with the threat will vary in Say it ain’t so, Joe!
complexity depending on which, if any, of the stories about Background: It’s a hard thing to not have a face of your 
Mr. Let-Me-In are true; if, as the oldest legends suggest, he’s own. The world just doesn’t sit right around you. Some would 
a homicidal maniac driven by monstrous urges, a group of call that a curse and crawl away to die in a deep dark hole. 
characters might be able to lay a trap for him and catch or But the creature that, since the early 1950s, has been called 
even kill him. If he’s a demon or a ghost, the only way to Nibbles the Clown has found a much more entertaining 
banish him might be to enact a particular ritual at the place option. If you don’t have a face of your own, well, plenty 
Mr. Let-Me-In entered this world, or to find a relic of his life of folks around the world aren’t putting theirs to good use.
that can be ritually destroyed. The name Nibbles the Clown first appears in an article 

from the Calumet City News in 1952 about a bloody massacre 

154 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



at a child’s birthday party. Seven people had their faces chewed Mental Skills: Academics 2, Computers 2, 
off by a supposed “birthday clown” over the course of three Medicine 2, Occult 2, Politics 2, Science 2
hours. The survivors (including Leticia Brown, now 70 years Physical Skills: Athletics 10, Stealth 5, 
old and the birthday girl) later claimed to have no knowledge Weaponry 3
of anyone hiring a clown for the party. Similar stories about Social Skills: Empathy 2, Intimidation 3, 
a “Ghastly Man” and a “spindle-legged brute” go back to Subterfuge 10
Renaissance Venice, and Roman journals held in private col-
lections describe a thing that haunted the Forum Romanum Merits: Cheap Shot ••, Choke Hold, Fast-Talking 

•••, Fighting Finesse (Knives), Striking Looks ••
and tore the faces from drunken revelers at Saturnalia.

Records are rather less clear about why the creature eats Potency: 8
faces and wears them as its own. It never seems to keep a Willpower: 17
particular face for more than an hour or two, and never seems Virtue: Playful
to do anything with its stolen identities except to choose, ap-
proach, and torment its next victim. Perhaps it can’t retain an Vice: Capricious
identity for very long and it’s searching for the one perfect face Aspirations: To chew off peoples’ faces, to ter-
that will fit it. Or maybe it’s just a creature of chaos, reveling rify them by revealing itself at the worst possible 
in the bloodshed and fear it leaves in its wake. moment.

Description: Once it’s stolen someone’s face, Nibbles the Initiative: 11
Clown is able to mimic that person precisely for a short time — Defense: 16
usually a scene or two. At that point (or earlier if someone has seen Speed: 30
through the ruse), Nibbles unfolds its body, peels off the stolen 
face, and reveals its true form. Nibbles stands nearly nine feet tall, Health: 10
though most of that is in its long, spindly, stiltlike legs. It appears Weapons/Attacks:
variously garbed as a classical opera clown in the style of Pagliacci, a 
modern “tramp” clown, or in an exaggerated, clownish caricature Type Damage Range Dice Pool
of whatever its last victim was wearing. Its movement is broad and Gnawing 2L Melee 4
stumbling, almost drunken, but for all that it’s fast and nimble. Teeth

Nibbles’ real face is a ghastly example of the uncanny Skinning 1L Melee 11
valley effect: almost perfectly human, but just subtly off. Knife
Its skin is a little too pale, its lips a little too wide and red, Dread Powers: Chameleon Horror, Jump Scare, 
its nose just too bulbous to be natural. Its voice is a shrill, Natural Weapons ••, Reality Stutter, Surprise 
high-pitched shriek, like an industrial-scale buzzsaw, and it’s Entrance
fond of rhyming its statements to nicknames. (“See you soon, 
June,” “You’re dead, Fred,” etc.)

Storytelling Hints: If there’s one thing scarier than a Pretty, Pretty Princess
psychotic monster clown, it’s a psychotic monster clown that <Childlike giggling and the sound of a music box.>
can be anyone at any time. Nibbles is a Horror best deployed Background: The problem with cautionary tales 
in stories where paranoia, secrecy, and mistrust reign. While about monsters is that, eventually, people get the message. 
you can run a game featuring Nibbles the Clown as a perfectly Thousands of years ago, sailors were enticed by beautiful fig-
standard Chronicles of Darkness story, consider going outside ures sunning themselves and singing on rocky islands. When 
the game system for ways to build tension. Maybe between they sailed in closer, hoping for an amorous liaison, their 
scenes of normal gameplay, have the troupe play a round of ships would be dashed upon the rocks and the sirens would 
Werewolf (that’s the party game also sometimes called Mafia, feast. But the story got around, sailors started blocking their 
not Werewolf: The Forsaken) in which one character is ears with beeswax, and the sirens were out of a food source.
secretly killed and replaced by Nibbles “off screen.” (Perhaps These days, not only is everyone suspicious of a perfectly 
sometimes Nibbles doesn’t replace anyone at all, but lurks beautiful stranger sunning on a rocky islet, modern shipping 
off screen to attack when the dramatic tension hits its peak.) lanes don’t hug the coast like the old triremes did, and GPS 
During the scene, characters can then try to figure out who, navigation systems and sonar mapping make it much harder 
if anyone, has been replaced, and how to deal with that. to lure ships onto the rocks. Many of the sirens of old died 

out or faded into legend. Some, like the being known as 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 6, Wits 6, Pretty, Pretty Princess, adapted. The cynical modern world 
Resolve 6 may be leery of the traditional image of a siren, but just about 
Physical Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 8, anyone will respond to a child in danger.
Stamina 4 Description: The Pretty, Pretty Princess resembles a cheru-
Social Attributes: Presence 5, Manipulation 10, bic little girl, about six or seven years old, with a mop of curly 
Composure 3 black hair and vaguely Mediterranean features — she might 

155 
Horrors



be North African, Greek, Turkish, or Sicilian, depending Weapons/Attacks:
on who you ask. She dresses in a cheap-looking, apparently 
store-bought princess costume, the kind that consists of a Type Damage Range Dice Pool
pink leotard, tutu, and conical hat with gauzy veils streaming Shark Bite 3L Melee 14 dice
from the tip. She’s usually encountered innocently playing Dread Powers: Hypnotic Voice, Natural 
and humming to herself someplace where her life could be Weapons •••
threatened at any moment: places like active construction 
sites, shipping yards, or truck depots. She never speaks to 
anyone, and when her victims are lured in close and she Rachel Hrafn
prepares to feed, it’s easy to see why: her eyes roll back in her I remember what you did.
head till they show only white, her face splits open nearly to Background: It made the local papers, back in 1995. A lo-
the ears, and she opens a maw filled with row upon row of cal activist for the homeless, Rachel Hrafn, and her boyfriend 
jagged, razor-sharp teeth. For such a little girl, she can still were brutally murdered in a home invasion gone awry. Police 
consume a full grown adult in just a few gulping, rending never found the culprit, and after a couple of weeks with no 
bites, leaving nothing behind but a smear of blood. developments the news cycle moved on and the investiga-

Storytelling Hints: Pretty, Pretty Princess is a straightfor- tion fell into the cold case cabinet at SPD. In time, no one 
ward Horror. She doesn’t have any real hidden layers, she just even remembered the crime — except for Rachel herself. Her 
wants to hunt and kill and eat. Like most such monsters, she restless spirit raged for years, anchored to her bones, until 
works best when she’s turned loose on a group of characters something intervened. Whether it was the hand of a higher 
in an isolated, contained environment from which there is power, a random mystical convergence, or a side effect of 
no escape. From her siren days, she still harbors a fondness the splintered timelines that sometimes appear in Seattle, 
for places associated with sea travel and trade as hunting some force stuffed her soul back into her body, restored it 
grounds, so she might stalk the night shift staff of one of to a semblance of health and vigor, and imbued her with a 
those freeway truck stops in the middle of nowhere: once singular drive: to avenge herself on her killers.
Pretty, Pretty Princess shreds the tires or the fuel hoses of Rachel’s murder was, of course, not a simple home inva-
the trucks parked in the lot, escape becomes a question of a sion gone awry. It was a conspiracy, aimed at silencing her 
fifty-mile hike along the freeway or hoping a car comes along opposition to a new zoning law that would have demolished 
in the dead of night. Or the crew of a commercial fishing one of the region’s largest tent cities. At the time, the con-
boat might find her adrift in a lifeboat, the sole presumed spirators were city councilmen, local gangs, and construction 
survivor of a cruise ship lost at sea. companies, with a smattering of paid-off police officers to 

make the whole thing go away. In the twenty years since, 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 4, Wits 4, though, Rachel’s killers have advanced themselves consider-
Resolve 4 ably, both in wealth and power. The shade of Rachel Hrafn 
Physical Attributes: Strength 6, Dexterity 2, has its work cut out for it.
Stamina 6 Description: Rachel is a solidly-built woman of above-
Social Attributes: Presence 4, Manipulation 2, average height, who dresses much as she did in life, in the 
Composure 2 alternative fashions of the mid-1990s. Though by all rights she 

should have decomposed to a skeleton by now, whatever force 
Mental Skills: Crafts 3, Occult 2 reanimated her restored her body as well. She is unmistak-
Physical Skills: Athletics 6, Brawl 8 ably dead, with waxy white flesh and petechial hemorrhaging 
Social Skills: Expression 6 from her strangulation that has left deep black stains around 
Merits: Small-Framed, Grappling ••, Inspiring, her eyes, lips, and throat. Her voice is a low rasp, and she 
Sympathetic frequently pauses mid-sentence to swallow painfully.

Storytelling Hints: At first blush, Rachel might seem 
Potency: 4 like a sympathetic Horror. After all, she’s just looking to 
Willpower: 10 get justice for her murder. But her methods are bloody and 
Virtue: “Harmless” sadistic — since she rose from her grave, she’s already killed a 

Vice: Hungry half-dozen people in spectacularly brutal ways in her attempts 
to find and punish her killers. So far she’s only taken out 

Aspiration: To feast. foot soldiers and lackeys; the men and women responsible for 
Initiative: 4 her killing are now rich, powerful, and very well protected. 
Defense: 8 Even an immortal undead killer might not be able to take 

Speed: them on alone.
12, Swim 24 A precise list of Rachel’s targets isn’t provided, so that 

Health: 10 Storytellers can tailor them to her chronicle. The number 
should be large enough to give the players’ characters time 

156 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



to react between killings, but not so large that the individual Weapons/Attacks:
executions lose their impact. The conspiracy might include:

Type Damage Range Dice Pool
•	 The low-level crooks who actually did the deed, per-

haps three to five thugs and hardened killers. Martial arts 0L Melee 9
Banes: Anything used in her funeral (wood from 

•	 A couple of patrol officers or a homicide detective her coffin, stone from her headstone, etc.)
who made the evidence go away. Dread Powers: Hunter’s Senses (her killers), 

Regeneration ••
•	 The CEO of the construction firm that stood to 

benefit the most from Rachel’s death. The Swimming Hole
•	 A city councilman or former mayor who received Background: No one swims at the old swimming hole 

campaign funds from the aforementioned CEO. outside town any more. Part of that is due to convenience 
The important thing to remember is that all of these — ever since they opened the municipal pool downtown, 

people have moved up in the world significantly. The crooks nobody wants to drive 20 miles out to the old quarry and 
are now bosses of their own syndicates, the crooked detective climb down the narrow, slippery trail to the still water at the 
might be Chief or Police Commissioner, the city councilman bottom. Part of it’s that the swimming hole is the setting for 
is a state Senator or even a US Congressman, and so on. To innumerable local ghost stories: tales of spurned lovers and 
add some personal drama to the revenge tale, perhaps one crooked politicians, of tragic accidents and murder in the 
of them has gone straight in the years since, and tried to dark. But mostly it’s because the water is just too powerful, 
make amends as best they could. It won’t dissuade Rachel, too special to profane by swimming in it. The swimming hole, 
certainly, but if the characters are investigating her killings (or you see, is a wishing well. All it takes is a little blood in the 
even helping her), it might generate some internal conflict. water and a fervent desire.

Alternately, for a one-shot story, you might have the play- Most of the locals know about the power of the swimming 
ers create characters who were involved in the conspiracy hole, whether by direct experience or from the local rumor 
twenty years ago and turn Rachel loose on them. Obviously, mill. They also know it’s a very, very bad idea to actually make 
make sure your players are comfortable with this, both in a wish down there. In true monkey’s paw fashion, the wishes 
terms of most of them meeting grisly fates by the story’s end granted by the swimming hole come with a heavy price. One 
and in terms of playing characters involved in a violent double young man wished for a flashy car, just like his dad’s. He got 
homicide. You’ll also want to dial up Rachel’s ability to cut it, but only because his father was paralyzed in an accident 
through armed guards and security measures in this scenario. and couldn’t drive it any more. Another wished for a million 

dollars, which came in the form of an insurance check after 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 3, a freak fire claimed her house, her business, and her entire 
Resolve 7 family. Everybody knows the wishes come with a price — but 

Physical Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 6, just the same, everybody knows the swimming hole is there, 

Stamina 7 and sometimes folks are desperate enough to pay any price 
to get what they want.

Social Attributes: Presence 4, Manipulation 2, Description: “The Swimmin Hole” (as a crudely painted, 
Composure 1 corrugated aluminum sign posted down by the water names 
Mental Skills: Academics 2, Politics 3 it) sits at the bottom of a 70-foot deep pit at the old limestone 
Physical Skills: Athletics 5, Brawl 5, Stealth 3 quarry. The mining company moved on long ago, when their 

Social Skills: Intimidation 2 drills broke through into an underground lake. Try as they 
might, the miners couldn’t fill the lake or find a source to 

Merits: Indomitable, Martial Arts ••••, Parkour ••• dam up, so they took the insurance payout and moved on.
Potency: 3 The water itself is still and black and always just a little 
Willpower: 11 too cold for comfort. No one’s ever been able to dive deep 

enough to find the bottom, and no matter how bitter the 
Virtue: Wrathful winter, the surface never seems to ice over. Nothing lives in 
Vice: Mournful the swimming hole: no fish, no algae, even the cattails and 
Aspirations: To take revenge, to mourn her dead grass stop hard at the edge of the water.
fiancé. Across the water from the little footpath that leads down 
Initiative: 7 from the road, there’s a little cave. It sits just a hair above the 

waterline, and it’s only just big enough to crawl into. The 
Defense: 8 cave is pitch dark and gives off a feeling of intense menace, 
Speed: 15 but if you brave it, and take a flashlight with you, you’ll find 
Health: 12 a poem carved directly into the rock wall:

157 
Horrors



Come to my waters and bleed for a wish Health: N/A

I shall dish out your  Dread Powers: Miracle
dreams like a fat wriggling fish

But if my waters are Vanishing Hitchhiker
 ever drained down I just need to find my dad. Can you give me a ride?

Background: Lucas Kight was struck and killed by a car 
I won’t dawdle nor  on a moonless night three years ago. He was out looking for 

dally when killing your town his father, who had gone out to get dinner seven hours before 
and never come back. The whole thing was a tragic accident, 

Storytelling Hints: The swimming hole works as a stressor with nobody to blame, but with Lucas’ father missing the boy 
for any kind of story of small-town drama and petty politics. had no next of kin, so the city buried him in a potter’s field. 
As interpersonal conflicts grow, slights are committed, and Lucas’ spirit did not rest easily, though, and he now haunts 
tragedies befall the townsfolk, that certainty that it could all the blind curve where he was killed. He appears occasionally 
be better if you just went down to the swimming hole and to passing motorists and asks them for a ride.
made a wish grows in your mind, like a fat little tick feeding Provided the drivers are willing to go along, Lucas leads 
on your insecurities. Eventually someone will make a wish, them on a circuitous route past the power station (his father’s 
and the whole thing will explode. One person wishes for job), the local dive bar his father liked to hang out at, an out-
revenge on a cheating spouse — the wish kills the philanderer, of-business Thai takeout restaurant (the place his father was 
but takes his sister with him. The sister has a family of her supposed to be getting dinner from), and 
own, friends, people who miss her. Maybe they finally to the now-vacant house where he 
wish for revenge in turn, or maybe they just and his father lived. The way the story 
wish her back. Either way, it ends bloody goes, this is usually when the driver gets 
as old grudges and family feuds suddenly fed up and demands to know what’s go-
have the backing of deadly magic. ing on, only to discover that there’s no 

Alternately, for a more outwardly- one in the car with them. It’s an old 
focused story, perhaps a new company story, and one found all over 
has bought the old quarry. They’ve the world. Most 
got some fancy new pumping system people who 
they say will drain the swimming e n -
hole right down and let them start 
mining again. It would bring jobs 
to the area, revitalize the local 
economy, but enough of the locals 
have read the message in the cave 
to figure that’s a bad idea. In this 
scenario, the players might take 
the roles of the locals trying to 
protect the hole, or they might 
be the engineers and surveyors 
coming in to restart the min-
ing operation.

Best At (10 Dice): 
Enticing people to make 
wishes, dragging people 
under and drowning them.
Worst At (2 Dice): 
Affecting anything outside 
the hole itself.
Willpower/Scene: 6
Initiative: 5
Defense: N/A
Speed: 0

158 
Horrors and wonders-antagonists



counter Lucas’ ghost are none the worse off for it; maybe Lucas Kight’s ghost might also be roused to more dra-
they’re a little spooked, maybe drawn into the supernatural matic activity if a new family were to move into his home. 
world, but Lucas isn’t usually dangerous. Though he spends most of his time haunting the spot where 

The key word there is “usually.” Lucas is still looking for he died, if Lucas were to get a ride home and see the lights 
his father and, every once in a while, a driver picks him up on and strange people in “his” house, he might abandon his 
who bears a passing resemblance to his father. Sometimes vanishing-hitchhiker routine long enough to drive them out.
it’s the eyes, sometimes it’s the voice or the build, or even 
just that they’re wearing utility coveralls like his dad wore Virtue: Persistent
at work. When Lucas finds his “dad,” he takes him home. Vice: Lonely
So far, though, every time Lucas has found his father, he’s 
ended up losing him again. The bones of at least nine men Integrity: 5
litter the basement of the old Kight house. Anchors: The intersection where he died, his 

Description: Lucas is a young man of about 14, with house, and the roads he walked the night he died, 
short, dark hair and large eyes. He’s still dressed as he was looking for his father.
the night he died: jeans, t-shirt, gray jacket, and tennis shoes Rank: 2
with no socks. In bright lights, like the high beams of a car, Attributes: Power 7, Finesse 3, Resistance 4
he appears vaguely translucent, but otherwise gives few signs 
of his spectral nature. Influence: Lost Things

Storytelling Hints: Lucas seems like a harmless local leg- Corpus: 9
end, a sad but ultimately friendly spirit that would-be ghost Willpower: 7
hunters might try to make contact with and lay to rest. Once Size: 5
he fixates on someone as a replacement for his father, though, 
he becomes a terrifying jailor, dragging the unfortunate into Speed: 15
his abandoned home and holding him prisoner there until he Defense: 3
expires from deprivation. (Lucas has forgotten about things Initiative: 7
like food and water.) To date, Lucas has only ever taken men 
travelling alone, but it’s quite possible that if he were picked Armor: None
up by a group that included a man who resembled his father, Numina: Mortal Mask
he might imprint on all of them as a surrogate family. Manifestation: Avernian Gates, Materialize, 

Figuring out what happened to Lucas’ actual father might Twilight Form
be the key to putting him to rest and stopping his killings. Max Essence: 15
Whether Lucas’ father simply walked out on his son or was 
involved in something more mysterious (and, indeed, if he’s Ban: Lucas Kight must follow anyone who says 

they can tell him where his father is.
even still alive) is left to the Storyteller, but, whatever the 
circumstances, it will be a challenge for characters to keep Bane: The key to the basement door in Lucas’ old 
Lucas’ spirit calm long enough for some sort of reconciliation. house.

159 
Horrors



What Has Risen May Fall
What is the God-Machine? That question doesn't have a single, easy answer, 

but that doesn't stop people from asking. The Chronicles of Darkness are 
layers upon layers of mystery, but what is the mechanism that keeps them all 
moving? Is there a design in play? And what happens to those who think to 

use the Machine for their own ends? 

What Has Fallen May Rise Again






From the Testament of Marco Singe,  
the so-called “Pain Prophet” of New Delhi.

When I was 12, my father beat me after hearing what I The Ancients commanded their servants to build a great 
had done with another boy. It was as I lay on the cellar floor, city, a city so vast that a child setting out to walk its length would 
feeling the blood on my back become sticky and cold, that be an old man before reaching the other side. Calling on the 
the angel first spoke to me. She filled the air with the scent of power of the God-Machine, the Ancient Ones raised their city 
metal and surrounded me with a circle of blue flame, and I into the dome of the sky, fixing it at the place where the orbit 
was frightened. of the moon crossed the orbit of the sun. And in the city they 

placed a third of mankind to serve them as vassals and slaves.
“Don’t be afraid,” she told me. “I have come to speak to 

you, and through you. At the command of the God-Machine In the city of the Ancients, man lived closer to the First 
you shall hear my words and know them to be true.” Her voice Children than ever before. And some of the men began to 
was like the notes of a flute and their vibrations calmed my wonder, “Why do the Ancients spend their days in rest while 
fear. And that was how I learned the secret history of the world. we must toil without relief? Why do the Ancients enjoy the 

pleasures of this city when it is our labor that built it?” And 
The God-Machine built our world as a resting place so resentment rose among the Third Children. They made 

for its First Children, whom men called angels or Ancient the proper calculations and sent the prayer-signals to the 
Ones. After a time, the ancients desired servants to dwell coordinates of the God-Machine, saying, “We are your 
with them, servants who walked upright and had pleasing children, too. It is not right that we be enslaved. Will you 
shapes, and who could speak. They sent the proper prayer- not look on us with favor?”
signals to the God-Machine and were granted leave to 
do so. First the Ancient Ones took the beasts of the field And they received this answer: “What rises must fall. 
and granted them the knowledge to speak and walk. But What has fallen may rise again.”
these animals retained their wildness and did not make 
good servants. They grew wicked and violent, and were The men of the city debated for seven years. Finally, they 
cast into the wilderness. They were the Second Children, decided that it was the will of the God-Machine that they 
whom men called demons. raise themselves from slavery. Determined to kill the Ancients 

and take their place as the favored of the God-Machine, the 
So the Ancients called new servants into being and men of the city plotted carefully. When the time came, they 

commanded them to spread across the face of the Earth. fell upon the Ancient Ones in their sleep, murdering them with 
And these were the Third Children, called mankind. And their own weapons and devices in a single night of betrayal. 
mankind served the Ancients in peace and contentment. 
Mankind knew not death then. Those whose bodies became The streets of the celestial city ran red with blood. A great 
worn and aged were sent to sleep in the shadow of the cry rose up from the Earth, and the mountains shook and the 
Earth and returned after a time restored to health and youth. skies were filled with storms. The Ancients struck back at their 



servants, but too late. Just eight of the Ancient Ones survived. stop it. The city was loosened from the moorings that held 
As they fled, they cried out, “We are undone, our time is it to the firmament. The men cried out in horror, rushing to 
over, but while our time was long and joyous, yours shall be flee the city before it crashed to earth. Some set upon the 
short and painful.” And they became known as the Furies. roads of light that the Ancients had built, and became lost 

among the stars. Some reached the silver-sailed boats and 
The first Fury was named Silence, and fled to the center descended safely. But many were trapped within the city, 

of the Sun. It cursed mankind to forget the art of speaking and screamed their last as it fell. And when the city crashed 
to and receiving the signals of the God-Machine. and sank beneath the waves, the world shook, the sun hid 

The second Fury was named Death, and fled to the its face and everywhere people were afraid.
hidden side of the moon. It cursed mankind to forget the And here the angel paused, regarding me with a 
way back from the shadow of the Earth. hundred eyes. “Fear not these words I speak to you. For 

The third Fury was named Torment, and fled to the the news I bear is this: The God-Machine has not turned 
star Venus. It cursed mankind to be split into two beings, its eye from your home. What has fallen may rise again. 
wyff-man and wo-man, each imperfect and forever seek- The Third Children shall have their chance to achieve what 
ing its opposite. they once desired. But the way will not be easy. The First 

Children are set in judgment over you, and the Second 
The fourth Fury was named Fear, and fled beneath Children seek to trap you. It is their workings that take your 

the highest mountain on the Earth. It cursed mankind to be world through its turnings.”
hated and dreaded by all the beasts and birds and fish 
and all creatures everywhere. The angel then bade me to warn mankind of the hidden 

forces that seek to thwart the destiny of the Third Children. 
Of the other four surviving Ancient Ones nothing here Their handiwork appears again and again throughout his-

can be said, for they chose to withhold their curses until tory. Regard the mighty Sphinx of Egypt. Recent studies of the 
such time as they saw fit. water erosion on its rocky surface indicate that the monument 

dates back to the days when the Sahara was green and lush. 
And then the city of the Ancients shook to its founda- Far older than the pyramids it guards, the Sphinx comes from 

tions. The men marveled at what happened but could not a time close to the fall of the Ancients. The Second Children 



roamed freely through the world then, greater than man in and higher. When they were done they changed the mound 
power and knowledge. The demons shaped primitive man to stone, calling it Uluru.
into a civilization that revered them as gods. But their hubris 
was against the will of the God-Machine, and they failed. And the Ancient One, hearing the stories and dream-
The great civilizations of Egypt, Sumer, and Babylonia rose songs of the natives, was pleased. It made a pact with them, 
later from the dim memories of that failure, revering gods agreeing to stay its wrath and share with them stories of 
with the forms and features of beasts. how they and their world were created. But if the people 

stopped telling the stories and stopped singing the dream-
The Egyptians called the protokingdoms that preceded songs, the Ancient would awaken and unleash its curse. So 

them the “first time,” or the Age of Osiris. They considered today the aboriginal Anangu people continue the songs 
it the source of all wisdom and knowledge. The pyramids and rituals laid down by their ancestors. Uluru remains a 
and surrounding structures, built to mirror the locations of place of great power, where spirits gather and strange 
the constellation of Orion and other celestial objects (with energy flows. The government of Australia has ceded 
the Nile representing the Milky Way), was essentially a management of the surrounding land to the Anangu rather 
vast time machine used to teach the pharaohs how to “swim than try to deal with reports of lights in the sky, fluctuating 
upstream” against time and return to the Osirian age. By magnetic fields, and unusual animals. 
understanding the layout of these structures, the pharaoh 
of any era could visualize the location of a secret chamber Of all the people of the earth, it was those who came 
that would grant him access to a bygone age. to dwell on the South American continent who carried with 

them the greatest knowledge of their time in the city of the 
Somewhere beneath the Sphinx, that chamber awaits Ancients. Their journey from the fallen city to what would 

discovery. The cults of the Second Children protect the become their home took many generations, and some 
Sphinx from a distance, inhibiting attempts to uncover it understanding was lost. But they remembered much and 
completely, preventing further exploration of its tunnels. built mighty civilizations, rediscovering and developing the 
When their own servants discern its location, the Second arts of writing, mathematics, astronomy, and farming. The 
Children will enter the chamber and attempt to recreate the children of this group became the Xi, and their children the 
world that slipped from their grasp so long ago. Mayans, Incans, Toltecs and Aztecs. As their various tribes, 

city states, and empires rose and fell, secrets of the Ancients 
I asked about the four Furies who withheld their curses were spread and understanding became more refined.

on the night of the murder. “Some of them dwell beneath the 
earth,” the angel told me, “And wait for the permutations of Yet that knowledge would be their downfall. At the 
the God-Machine before they unleash their wrath.” One of bottom of the world, one of the Ancients watched. It saw 
them, upon fleeing from the Celestial City, came to rest in that the elite among the cultures of the sun were close to 
what is now the continent of Australia. Touching down in the mastering the Star Rites, the rituals of becoming which 
desert, this Ancient was certain it would remain hidden from opened holes in time and changed men to gods. “It is not 
man, and so it laid itself down to rest and heal its wounds. right for the Third Children to become Luminous Ones,” the 

Ancient said, and begged permission of the God-Machine 
But the Ancient One did not realize how widespread to deliver its curse. The God-Machine transmitted: “You may 

the tribes of mankind had become. No sooner did the speak your curse, but let it be but a whisper, for I desire that 
Ancient close its eyes than natives of that land crept close to secrets be only hidden, not destroyed.” So the Ancient took 
gaze upon the being that had fallen from the sky. They were the name Strife and sent its voice far across the world to a 
a people skilled in reading dreams, and their magicians ship in the south Atlantic, where a pilot dozed at the wheel.
peered into the mind of the sleeping Ancient. They saw that 
this visitor held a deep and bitter hatred for mankind, and “Steer south,” the Ancient One whispered. “Steer south.” 
they saw the awful curse it prepared to unleash. Half awake, the sailor turned the wheel and the course of 

an entire fleet of ships was altered. Shortly after, a storm 
The people grew afraid. They had no weapons mighty hit, and the ships were battered. They were blown south 

enough, no warriors powerful enough to slay one of the to the isle of Cozumel. From there, the fleet’s commander 
Ancients. All they had were songs and stories. And so they Hernando Cortez led his soldiers to the mainland and the 
whispered and sang in low voices until they had woven a eventual conquest of the Aztec nation. The fall of the Aztecs, 
careful dream that deepened the Ancient One’s slumber, sooner than might otherwise have happened, allowed a rush 
stilling its anger and quieting its thirst for vengeance. And of European colonization that doomed the native cultures. 
the magicians covered the angel with soil, piling it higher 



But not all was lost. Despite the best efforts of the con- sending and receiving wireless electromagnetic messages. 
querors, some of the ancient traditions of Mesoamerica were He did not reveal his invention to the world, however, 
secretly preserved by the conquered and are honored today because he believed he’d stumbled upon something more 
by their descendants. The 20 calendars of the Maya, the important than the invention itself. When he first turned on 
Incan Skulls of Wisdom, and the Toltec maps of the Black the receiver, before activating the transmitter, signals were 
Sun— for those who are diligent and wise, the formulas to already being sent.
step outside time can be pieced together from these.

Hughes was a mathematician and musician. To his 
I asked the angel if mankind will ever hear the voice of keen ears it seemed clear that the sounds he heard were 

the God-Machine again, or if it is truly lost to us. not random, but some kind of encoded pattern. He spent 
seven years trying to interpret what he heard. Hughes made 

The angel explained that with the discovery of the little progress until he showed a curious friend a diagram 
electromagnetic spectrum, mankind took its first halting he’d made to represent the pattern of signals he’d studied. 
step toward communication with the God-Machine. For To the surprise of both men, Hughes’ friend had seen the 
electromagnetic waves are the shadows of the voice of the pattern before — at the British Museum of Natural History. 
God-Machine. They are the edge of something that can The next day, Hughes visited the museum. He saw an exhibit 
only be fully understood in more than three dimensions. of stone carvings taken from Mayan temples dating back 
The Mayan high priests called them the branches of ceiba, to the first centuries of the Common Era.
or the tree of life. In 1870 — more than 20 years before 
Marconi demonstrated his famous wireless — British inven- After several more years and copious correspondence 
tor and scientist David Hughes crafted a device capable of with experts around the world, Hughes was convinced that 



he could translate at least part of the message that awaited much to the consternation of governments and commercial 
him when he first activated his machine. He confided to his broadcasters worldwide. Also known as “numbers stations,” 
friends and colleagues that he would soon have a spectacu- the devices transmit today, and can be heard on conventional 
lar announcement to make. But he died three days before the shortwave receivers. According to Hughes’ apocryphal state-
event. Following the directives of his recently rewritten will, ments, their intended recipient is “the ruler of Mictlan, the Mayan 
his attorney removed all references to the mysterious signals Tartarus.” What Hughes believed would happen when the 
from Hughes’ notes and records. Aside from the comments proper signal was received is not known.
and testimonies of those who knew Hughes, the only extant 
reference left is among the final pages of his diary: “What of the Second Children,” I asked the angel. 

“Do they ever make their presence known to mankind?”
“Long and painful hours, months, years, have brought 

me to this. But a small fraction of a greater whole, made “Their influence is widespread and insidious,” the 
finally clear to my understanding. And yet these few words, angel said.
I cannot bear to hear. Let them reach no other ears. Let what As the premier political power on the American 
is fallen remain fallen.” continents, the United States acquired much of the secret 

In the century since his death, some of Hughes’ notes have knowledge that had been plundered by Europeans in South 
come to light. In the early 1950s, a group of amateur shortwave America. Its capitol city was laid out according to geometric 
radio operators claimed that Hughes had not only decoded principles of Aztec cities, such as Tenochtitlan, as interpreted 
the signals but had left diagrams of a machine that would reply by European freemason architects. The lines of the streets are 
to the code. Though no one could locate the signals Hughes oriented to channel energy from the Earth. Numbered and 
described, instructions for building Hughes’ “responders” were lettered boulevards allow power to be ritualistically directed 
widely circulated, and hundreds of the machines are believed for various purposes. The result has allowed a country of 
to have been built since. They continually transmit automated farmers and immigrants to grow into the most powerful na-
sequences of numbers, words, tones, music and other sounds, tion on the Earth.



In 1898, a cabal of government officials, wealthy the true reason for the project. The elite faction operating 
industrialists, and media moguls triggered the Spanish- behind America’s corridors of power now had a translated 
American War as a way to gain influence over Cuba and version of the Toltec Map fragment, which revealed a 
possess certain pre-Columbian artifacts located there. The detailed topography of the lunar surface. Most impor-
most notable of these was a fragment of one of the Black tantly, it contained an atlas of the moon’s so-called “dark 
Sun Maps of the Toltecs. America’s secret government was side,” as well as a comprehensive description of what lay 
capable of translating a part of the map, which enabled it entombed there.
to contact and entreat with one of the Second Children, a 
demon who agreed to perform certain services in exchange The American Apollo missions were so named to curry 
for blood sacrifice. favor with the various sun deities who were in fact aliases for 

the Second Children. Publicly, it was Apollo 11 that first put 
But for the most valuable service of all — complete man on the moon. But in fact, American astronauts began 

translation of the map fragment — America’s patron de- exploring the lunar surface as early as the 1968 Apollo 
manded tribute on a scale beyond the capacity of its clients 8 mission. Apollo 10 confirmed the location of what the 
to provide. So the secrets of the Black Sun remained un- Toltecs called “the crypt of the butterfly.” By Apollo 15, the 
spoken for decades. Then, as the 20th century approached outer vault was cracked, and it was 1972’s Apollo 17 — the 
its mid-point, the requisite “knife of flame” revealed its final manned lunar mission to date — that brought back 
presence at last. The enigma of atomic fire was unlocked what classified documents referred to as “Packet Theta.”
and the word’s first nuclear device was created. On 16 
July, 1945, the weapon was tested in Alamogordo, New The angel has warned me that the relic brought back 
Mexico. Its purpose was ritualistically sanctified with the from its receptacle on the moon has the potential to be 
chant, “I am become death, destroyer of worlds.” Weeks much more devastating than any atomic weapon. What 
later, the detonations in Japan satisfied the demonic con- was retrieved was the skeletal form of one of the Ancient 
tract, and in exchange the meaning of the Black Sun Map Ones. Specifically, the very being that pronounced the 
fragment was revealed. curse of mortality upon humanity. As the portal through 

which death itself entered our universe, it was changed into 
“And what was the secret of the map?” I asked the a thing neither dead nor alive. Those who learn to control 

angel. it, as its current jailers seek to do, will exert ultimate power 
over the tides of life and death.

“To the Toltec people, it was a warning,” she said. 
“But in modern times, it has become an irresistible lure.” With each passing day, dark forces come closer to 

gaining that power. Those who seek must unify and stand 
On May 25, 1961, U.S. President John Kennedy against them. Our world needs warriors of light, defenders 

declared before Congress an imperative for the nation to of life, seekers of truth to thwart their wishes. The God-
achieve a successful landing on the moon before the end Machine waits. The angel has shown me how. I can teach 
of the decade. What was not announced publicly was you. We are fallen, but we might rise again.






Detective David Nelson opened the hotel room door slowly. 
He never knew what he’d find on a case like this. Men who 

gunned down unarmed people in a crowded church often 
left living spaces that were just as JUMBLED and UGLY 

as the crimes they committed.

The blankets lay in disarray. A pillow had tumbled 
onto the floor. Empty Chinese take-out boxes 

waited in the trash can near the door. No sign 
that housekeeping had been in here yet today, 
which meant less likelihood that someone had 

DISTURBED evidence. 

Not that an undisturbed scene was quite 
so important in a case like this. No ques-

tion how or when the shooter’s victims 
had died, and the killer wasn’t about to 

make a court appearance. Nelson only cared 
about the killer’s motives and whether he 
had any accomplices-whether he was a LONE 

NUT JOB or a TERRORIST, in other words.

Nelson opened the top drawer of the dress-
er and pulled out a half-empty box of hollow 
point ammunition. No question where the other 
half had ended up. THIRTY-SEVEN members of the 

Church of Plenty were GUNNED DOWN during the 
morning service, and dozens more wounded. He closed 

the drawer.

A BROKEN laptop sat on the desk, glass scattered 
nearby, as though the shooter had smashed it. It 

didn’t hold Nelson’s interest for long. The data 
 retrieval folks could probably pull the shooter’s 
files off the hard drive, but he wasn’t getting any 

information from it today.

As Nelson stooped down on the far side of the bed, he 
noticed the DIRTY pair of blue jeans with one bulging pocket. The 
battered cellphone was nothing fancy. Its contacts list was empty 

except for two names — Clara and Abigail. He found plenty of 
pictures, though. Most of them were of a redheaded teenage girl. In 

the last one, she stood in front of a school with the forced smile of a 
kid who is humoring her parents. Nelson could just make out the name of 

the school — WELLINGTON SCHOOL FOR GIFTED CHILDREN.
Probably the killer‘s daughter, Nelson thought as he tossed the phone on 

top of the jeans. 

WHAT A SHAME.
He opened the closet and rummaged through the pockets of the leather 

jacket hanging there. Nelson removed a crisp, glossy business card from the 
inside pocket. “Melissa Charles: Collector of the Inexplicable,” it read, and 

then a phone number and P.O. Box.

Weird, Nelson mused, looking at the address. That’s on the other side of the country.

He found a SMUDGED sentence scribbled in pen on the back. 

“WHAT HAS FALLEN MAY RISE AGAIN,” it read, “AND I HAVE TO STOP IT.”
Nelson‘s eyes widened. He had seen those words before in the personal effects of two other 

spree shooters. Two might be coincidence, but three?



Gears Within Gears: 
The God-Machine 

Chronicle
Something is out there, something bigger than us. It permeates our world and 

possibly even stretches into other worlds, other dimensions, and other times. Its 
power can be felt everywhere, the silent manipulator of all of human history. It 
has a plan, but we are not privy to it.

If it desired our extinction, we would stand no better chance against it than 
the dinosaurs did against the meteor impact that ended their reign. But anyone 
who has witnessed the way it casually uses and discards humans to achieve its ends 
knows it isn’t benevolent. Only the most fanatical cultists devoted to it would say 
otherwise, and even they realize that their faith cannot preserve them from the 
object of their worship if it decides their death serves its purpose.

It is the God-Machine.
No human mythology ever conceived of a god so alien to the mortal mind. Its 

power would make gods of storms and catastrophe tremble in fear. Its foresight 
makes goddesses of prophecy and destiny seem blind by comparison. Unlike those 
anthropomorphic deities, the God-Machine cannot be reasoned with, appealed to, 
or appeased. In the cold eyes of the God-Machine, individual humans are of neg-
ligible consequence except insofar as they either further its plans or disrupt them.

The vast majority of humans live their whole lives without knowing the God-
Any sufficiently Machine exists, even if they are unknowing servants of its schemes. They’re the 

advanced technology  lucky ones. Encounters between mortals and the God-Machine often do not end 
is indistinguishable well for the mortal. People see something the God-Machine intends to keep secret 

from magic. — or they are singled out as the right shape of person for a particular task, the right 
size cog with the right number of teeth — and they disappear. Most never reappear, 

—Clarke’s Third Law and those who do usually end up as a John or Jane Doe in a morgue months or 
years later and miles away. The rest return marked by the experience — twisted in 
body, broken in mind, or just empty, somehow. Once in a while someone returns 
seemingly whole but without any memory of what happened, where they are, or 
how they got those mysterious scars. Rarely, a mortal slips away from the God-
Machine’s schemes with her recollections intact, but even these escapes might be 
part of the God-Machine’s plan.

Supernatural creatures are perhaps more likely to know of the God-Machine, but 
even they know next to nothing about its workings, and even less about its ultimate 
purpose. The ability to wield occult powers does not make these beings incapable of 
superstition. Quite often they assume the God-Machine has something to do with 
them — a creation of ancient mages, perhaps, or some remnant of power left by a 
forgotten spirit that is still weaving humanity into its elaborate tapestry. This is no less 
superstitious nonsense than any entertained by the God-Machine’s mortal cultists. 
When faced with something as vast and inscrutable as the God-Machine, imagining it 
is the product of something within one’s knowledge and experience can be a comfort.

Comfort is the enemy of true understanding.

Theme and Mood
Theme: The Hidden System

The God-Machine is a literal machine that spans the Earth and has tendrils in 
other worlds, dimensions, and times. Cogs turn in the background, and the best 

170 
the face in the mirror Characters



that most people, supernatural or otherwise, can do is peer up by the God-Machine’s servants probably has no idea that 
deep enough into the dark to see the wheels turning. Then you won’t live long enough to call your lawyer if you’re taken 
they usually misunderstand what they’ve seen and make into custody, but does your battle against one of the God-
up their own stories. Sometimes they see a little piece of it Machine’s schemes justify killing him?
correctly purely by accident. Sometimes lightning flashes 
at exactly the right time and someone sees the cogs in the 
God-Machine, full and clear. Then the moment passes, and All the  
the witness still knows no more about the purpose of all 
those mechanisms. Truth There Is
Mood: Cogs in the Machine What is the God-Machine? We’ll state up front that 

Like all machines, the God-Machine has a purpose, but we’re not going to provide a definitive answer. Rather, this 
humans aren’t equipped to understand it. Mortals who seek book provides a lot of possible ways to present and use the 
understanding of the God-Machine are like the four blind God-Machine in chronicles, but not exactly what the God-
men trying to describe an elephant by touching just one part Machine is.
of it. Except the God-Machine is more like an entire ecosystem, This might seem like we’re being unnecessarily coy, but 
and those feeling around blindly to understand its workings this is deliberate. Providing a specific, objective definition 
more than likely draw some wildly inaccurate conclusions and nature for the God-Machine would make it more dif-
about it. Its inscrutable system has math and physics and ficult to use in other Chronicles of Darkness games, but 
numbers and paperwork and machinery and timetables and keeping its nature undetermined (that’s not the same thing 
we’re not privy to any of it. It’s not our business, except insofar as “secret” — it isn’t that we know and we’re not telling you, 
as the God-Machine needs us to make a cog turn right. it’s that we aren’t making the decision) allows us to keep us-

ing it without contradicting existing or future material. One 
How to Use This Section guiding principle for the Chronicles of Darkness has always 

The God-Machine Chronicle is a sample chronicle for the been that it’s big enough to accommodate a lot of different 
Chronicles of Darkness. The God-Machine itself is a cosmic entities. Does the existence of the God-Machine invalidate, 
power, but its various schemes run the gamut from local say, the spirit courts found in Werewolf: The Forsaken or 
stories that may affect a handful of people all the way up to the Supernal Realms of Mage: The Awakening? Of course 
pandimensional enterprises that threaten the entire world not. The mechanisms of the God-Machine might be found 
with catastrophe. A God-Machine chronicle begins with a deep in the Underworld. A motley of changelings might 
few tiny glimpses of the hidden system and gradually expands find a section of Hedge behind an immense wall where the 
into levels of tremendous complexity of purpose. Characters Thorns have been cleared out and stacks of machinery sit, 
who seek to understand or oppose the God-Machine’s designs waiting for the day they might be useful. On the other hand, 
flirt with madness, death, or worse. They are mice running the God-Machine might very explicitly be absent from certain 
around in an enormous clock. One false step and they will areas of the setting. Maybe vampires corrode the integrity of 
find themselves ground into paste between its unfeeling gears. Infrastructure by their very presence. Maybe the Principle of 

This chapter is aimed at a gradual revelation of the hidden Promethean: The Created is an autonomous subset of the 
system over the course of many stories, but even if you don’t God-Machine, a program that went rogue long ago. 
want to make the God-Machine the focus of your chronicle, In any case, The God-Machine Chronicle presents 
much of what you’ll find in this book can be dropped into the entity within the context of a “mortals” Chronicles of 
just about any chronicle with a little bit of modification. Darkness game. That isn’t to say that you can’t run a God-
The God-Machine is one of those great unknowables that Machine chronicle with supernatural characters, just that if 
are out there doing something mortals and supernatural you do that, you might need to make some decisions about 
creatures alike cannot comprehend. Maybe some element “the truth.” But even then, it might not be necessary — that 
of the God-Machine’s plan runs contrary to the characters’ decision has less to do with the characters and more to do 
goals, or maybe they stand to gain something by furthering with the tier (see p. 180). 
one of its projects.

God-Machine cultists have many faces, too. One group of 
fanatical mortals will fight to the death to keep outsiders away Mainspring
from a demon-tainted playground because the God-Machine Any human attempt to understand the whole structure 
has told them the demon will escape if the playground is of the God-Machine is futile. The diversity of its moving 
disturbed. Elsewhere, a sorcerer offers the God-Machine the parts and servants is seemingly infinite. Some of the God-
souls of an entire town in hopes of currying favor with it, Machine’s gears are literal, hidden in basements, power 
and the characters might be the only thing standing in his plants, and in even stranger places throughout the world. 
way. Even the unwitting servants of the God-Machine can Most are figurative — a stretch of highway that taps arcane 
be dangerous, not to mention fraught with moral peril. The forces when a particular configuration of cars drives over it, 
cop with a warrant for your arrest on some pretense cooked 

171 
Mainspring



for example, or a shipping company that transports materials the difference between sunshine and rain on the other side 
where and when the God-Machine needs them. of the planet. The God-Machine doesn’t control the weather 

However, the God-Machine’s projects tend to follow cer- per se. It simply knows which butterfly must flap its wings to 
tain patterns. Those familiar with its handiwork can often bring the rain and ensures that those wings are flapping in 
recognize these patterns. The God-Machine could certainly the right time and place.
deviate from its habits, but it seldom does. Most people As with lesser machines, the God-Machine has no concern 
aren’t even aware enough of the God-Machine to notice that for the wellbeing of humans. It is aware of their existence, of 
something is out of place, and those who do clearly are not course, and it has some inkling of their potential as far as their 
worth the trouble of taking extra steps to conceal the God- usefulness to the God-Machine’s plans go. But it doesn’t waste 
Machine’s influence. any energy contemplating how its machinations will make 

them feel, or whether its purpose gives it ethical justification to 
Structural Limitations pound them down like nails to keep some part of its structure 

together. The God-Machine is perfectly willing to manipulate, 
The God-Machine is not omnipresent. It doesn’t have 

hurt, and kill people in order to achieve its goals. It prefers 
mechanical extensions of itself everywhere. Because it can’t 

to be subtle, to mask its meddling behind a thin façade of 
be everywhere at once, it relies heavily on intermediaries. The 

ordinary coincidences and misfortunes, but it doesn’t do so 
servants of the God-Machine seldom know why it demands an 

because it fears human reprisal. It does it because that’s just how 
action of them, although they often invent wildly-inaccurate 

it operates. People are just tools to it, and it thinks nothing of 
theories. Many of them don’t even realize they are serving 

cutting them open and raiding them for spare parts if it needs 
the God-Machine.

to. On the other hand, it doesn’t derive anything like pleasure 
Nor is the God-Machine omnipotent. It can’t actually vio-

from hurting or killing people. Most of the damage it causes 
late the laws of physics, but its demonstrated understanding 

humans is incidental. When the God-Machine hurts someone 
of them greatly exceeds anything anyone on Earth can imag-

deliberately it does so because that injury somehow serves its 
ine. It can harness forces physicists have not yet discovered 

purpose by furthering or protecting a project. 
to achieve results scientists consider completely impossible.

It appears that these small constraints on the God-
The God-Machine isn’t omniscient, either, but its 

Machine’s power force it to largely stick to its favored pat-
awareness is several dozen orders of magnitude beyond any 

tern when implementing a part of its plan. It is methodical, 
mortal’s. The popular chaos theory illustration describes a 

perfectly content to spend months or even decades arranging 
world in which the flapping of a butterfly’s wings can mean 

172 
the face in the mirror Characters



people and materials into the proper configuration before Defense Infrastructure: Sometimes concealment just 
wielding them like a precision tool. It appears not to respond isn’t enough. Supernatural beings and curious mortals spot 
quickly to problems and setbacks. Its projects can be thwarted, the patterns of the God-Machine’s project and start poking 
and on those occasions when one is, the God-Machine tends around looking for answers or, even worse, a way to thwart 
to draw back from the experience to consider its next move. that part of the plan. That’s when the God-Machine has to 
Rarely does the God-Machine try the thwarted gambit twice rely on more overt means of getting rid of these nuisances. 
in the same place, and even then only after taking some time From mortal cultists and terrestrial supernatural creatures to 
to analyze the data it collected during the failed attempt. spirits, monsters, and mechanical servants, the God-Machine 

While the God-Machine’s scale and machine nature has armies of allies at its disposal to get rid of inquisitive 
are its strengths, they also make it slow, and that slowness humans. It still tries to do so quietly, but when the God-
can be exploited by the mere mortals it thinks are so far Machine faces a real threat to its Infrastructure “quietly” is 
beneath it. Of course, that may also be merely a comfortable more likely to involve a sniper on a roof or some nightmare 
superstition. Just because the God-Machine seldom moves creature waiting in the backseat of the troublemaker’s car.
quickly doesn’t mean it can’t, and most of its servants lack Logistical Infrastructure: Most of the God-Machine’s proj-
the meticulous patience of the being they serve. A single ects involve moving people and materials into position — the 
mad cultist’s knife brings just as sure a death as an elaborate creation of the occult matrix that produces the output that is 
defensive subroutine does. the God-Machine’s objective for that project. This requires its 

own Infrastructure. The gluttony spirit can only be drawn into 
Infrastructure the world if offered the flesh of a hundred humans? The God-

Machine creates logistical Infrastructure to locate, collect, and 
In human terms, infrastructure is a basic organizational 

transport all that meat. An ancient relic lost millennia ago is 
structure in a complex system that serves as a foundation 

needed to open a gateway to another world, with inhabitants 
for the rest. You can’t have an electrically-lighted city of mil-

who must be subjugated to mine an occult mineral, native only 
lions without power plants and a means of transporting that 

to that planet? The God-Machine creates logistical Infrastructure 
electricity to buildings. And you can’t have those unless you 

to locate the desired artifact and bring it to the right place.
have a source for the parts that are needed to construct an 

Elimination Infrastructure: Some types of Infrastructure 
electrical grid. Every layer of complexity depends on a simpler 

are meant to be temporary, such as an occult matrix built 
layer that makes it possible, which depends on another layer 

to take advantage of a particular conjunction of the planets 
until we’re ultimately reliant on three things: knowledge, 

that won’t recur for a millennium. Less commonly, mortal 
natural resources, and manpower.

or supernatural investigators disrupt a project before all the 
The God-Machine’s Infrastructure is just as critical to 

necessary Infrastructure is in place. The God-Machine em-
its ability to bring its projects to fruition. Each piece of 

ploys scrubbing Infrastructure to eliminate all evidence that 
Infrastructure serves a specific purpose and is in itself a part 

any other Infrastructure existed in a place. The method of 
of a more complex piece of Infrastructure. The God-Machine 

elimination can be as crude as acts of arson or demolitions, or 
employs several kinds of Infrastructure in its projects:

Concealment Infrastructure: as subtle as a loyal wizard or spirit that causes the entire town 
 This is the God-Machine’s 

to forget about that night all the frogs in the lake gathered in 
first defense against interference with its plans. Despite its 

a circle at the center of town and croaked out an arcane song. 
power, it prefers to be subtle and so employs a great deal of 

It can be widespread (burying an entire city beneath the ash 
security through obscurity. Concealment Infrastructure is 

of a nearby volcano) or targeted (the mysterious death of a 
intended to do just that — allow the God-Machine’s projects 

single mortal who saw too much).
to remain undetected.

Command and Control Infrastructure: The God-Machine 
Some of this is purely mundane. The God-Machine will 

is a machine, and any machine as complex as it is has parts 
set up a front at the site of more important Infrastructure — 

that are responsible for setting the overall strategy of the God-
such as a fake restaurant, nightclub, or shop. Mortal dupes 

Machine. The God-Machine needs some means of gathering 
attend this front, never realizing that their actual job is to 

information and making decisions — the equivalent of a com-
keep up appearances so no one thinks to open a particular 

mand and control center or a central processing unit. So far no 
closet or explore the basement. 

one has located any such command and control Infrastructure, 
It can be supernatural, too. Why mortals can’t see the 

but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t exist. Considering the lengths 
God-Machine’s gears isn’t clear, but it likely has something to 

to which human militaries go to protect command and control 
do with concealment Infrastructure. Some mortals can see the 

centers, it is likely that any comparable Infrastructure the God-
gears, though. A few are born with the talent, but most gain 

Machine has would be similarly well defended.
the ability after their first encounter with the God-Machine. 
A mortal who sees a gear for whatever reason is forever able 
to see the gears anywhere in the world. (In game terms, a Occult Matrix and Output
mortal with Merit Unseen Sense: God-Machine can see the The God-Machine doesn’t spend all this time creating 
gears, and can see through concealment Infrastructure. See increasingly-complex layers of Infrastructure without reason. 
p. 60 for more on this Merit.) The goal of Infrastructure is to bring the right materials to 

173 
Mainspring



the right place at the right time and arrange or move them 
in the right way to achieve an outcome. The structure that 
generates the result is the occult matrix. Using Mortal Infrastructure

An occult matrix exploits a tiny exception in the laws of 
physics as humans understand them. The degree of preci- The God-Machine piggybacks on mortal infra-
sion the God-Machine must maintain in order to make use structure when it can. Sure, the God-Machine 
of an occult matrix makes rocket science seem forgiving of could create some occult method of delivering 
errors. Oftentimes if the God-Machine’s timing or place- orders to its mortal agents, but the postal system 

is often just as effective and does not require 
ment is slightly off, the occult matrix fails. Although it is additional Infrastructure. This also makes it harder 
conceivable that it instead does something the God-Machine for meddling mortals to rip up that communica-
didn’t intend, in almost every case a failed occult matrix does tion system, because by doing so they would be 
nothing at all. destroying something upon which they themselves 

This is one reason why the God-Machine takes so many depend. 
steps to avoid attention. If a coterie of snooping vampires The same goes for most of its mortal pawns. Why 
shows up at the critical moment and disrupts the matrix, the summon beings from beyond this world to guard 
God-Machine has wasted all the effort it put into carefully delicate Infrastructure when it can be hidden in 
arranging matters in the first place. What’s more, it usually a top secret military facility where soldiers shoot 
can’t make a second attempt because timing was just as im- intruders on sight? This adds an additional element 
portant to the matrix as the placement of materials. of horror to a God-Machine chronicle. These are 

A successfully-formed occult matrix generates an Output. ordinary people who are just going about their 
Usually this involves bringing an angel into the world. The business. Interrogating them is futile because they 
God-Machine can summon powerful (and lesser) entities have no idea that they’re pawns of the God-
from other dimensions, open portals to distant times and Machine, much less what role they play in its 
worlds, and do any number of other things even the most current project. Killing these unwitting servants of 
powerful supernatural creatures on Earth would regard as the God-Machine has Morality consequences, to 

say nothing of the legal repercussions. Besides, 
impossible. Perhaps they share a common origin or purpose, it’s amazing how easily the police find damning 
or perhaps something else binds them, but the angels appear evidence against those who kill mortals the God-
to be unfailingly loyal to the God-Machine, and this is prob- Machine was using to complete one of its projects.
ably the reason it prefers to use them in its projects. Angel or 
otherwise, the God-Machine nearly always uses the Output 
of one occult matrix in the Infrastructure of another project. 
Every Output makes a more complex Infrastructure possible, 
and the more complex the Infrastructure, the more powerful notice. Even if it builds them out in some wilderness where 
the Output of its occult matrix. no one ever goes, the necessary movement of people and 

For example, the goal of one of the God-Machine’s materials will still leave a trail. Someone might get close 
projects is to bring a particular kind of angel into the world. enough to interfere.
That is the project’s intended Output. To accomplish that, This is where concealment Infrastructure comes in. In 
six people must be simultaneously and ritually murdered at spite of its patience, the God-Machine cannot erase all traces 
the foot of each of six identical obelisks. This combination of its projects. However, it hides one obelisk in the lobby of a 
of conditions is the occult matrix required to generate the newly constructed luxury hotel. It instructs a wealthy resident 
Output. Obelisks don’t build themselves, however, so the to donate land to the city as a park, creating an excuse to 
God-Machine must first create Infrastructure to bring about erect an obelisk there under the pretense of being some kind 
those conditions. of war monument. A magical illusion hides the third from 

Logistical Infrastructure will factor heavily, as it usually view. The spire of a local church mysteriously collapses, and 
does. The God-Machine must acquire the land, collect the the fourth obelisk hides within its replacement. Suddenly, 
materials, and construct the obelisks — not to mention instead of six painfully obvious, mysterious obelisks the God-
organize the sacrifices. This will require it to work through Machine has four carefully-hidden obelisks and two obvious 
intermediaries. Servants with money or influence bankroll ones that do not suggest the full pattern.
the project or blackmail local governments into doing so. The God-Machine also deploys defense Infrastructure 
Pawns haul materials and build the obelisks according to around each of the obelisks, especially the two visible ones. 
the God-Machine’s specifications. Cultists kill or die for the A gang of mechanical teenagers prowls the park by night, and 
object of their devotion. park security polices it by day. The new assistant pastor of the 

The God-Machine prefers to be subtle, however. It doesn’t church is not human. The cult that will perform the sacrifice 
want anything disrupting the delicate occult matrix. If it at one obelisk will not allow any outsider near it. Each cult, 
simply builds six mysterious stone edifices in a handful of each group of servants, knows only about the obelisk it serves. 
small towns, some occult investigator out there will certainly They have no knowledge that the God-Machine has carefully 

coordinated the rituals they will perform.

174 
the face in the mirror Characters



Once the occult matrix is achieved, the angel arrives to •	 Mortal Politics: The God-Machine has subverted a 
carry out the God-Machine’s will. The God-Machine prob- politician’s pork project in order to construct a massive 
ably has no immediate need to bring more such angels, so it stone edifice. Officially, this is a war monument, but 
has no further use for the six obelisks. At this point it sends it’s actually the focal point of an occult matrix that is 
in scrubbing Infrastructure. If it does not foresee ever us- the goal of the God-Machine’s project. If funding for 
ing the obelisks again, these scrubbers destroy the obelisks, the construction were to be suddenly cut off, however, 
eliminate witnesses, and reassign the God-Machine’s servants the God-Machine would have to find some other way 
to new projects. If it calculates a future use for the obelisks, to finish the project or give it up for lost.
the scrubbers leave them in place but eliminate those who 
know about the sacrifices to prevent any investigators from •	 Communications Disruption: The God-Machine 
learning about the obelisks’ function in the occult matrix. has set up a communications hub in a post office in 

Oregon. Its gears type thousands of letters per week 
Linchpin and mail them to most of the God-Machine’s mor-

tal pawns on the West Coast. These letters contain 
Mortal and supernatural infrastructure alike has weak instructions to coordinate activity on dozens of the 

points that can be attacked to shut the whole thing down. God-Machine’s projects. None of the postal employees 
A house has lights, internet access, air conditioning, and know the gears are there, but someone who intercepts 
every other modern convenience, but cut just one wire that enough of these communiques could notice that all 
leads to the electrical grid, and all that stops working. The the envelopes are coming from the same origin city. 
Infrastructure of each of the God-Machine’s projects also has Stop those letters, and many of the God-Machine’s 
vulnerabilities called Linchpins. projects could collapse.

A linchpin is the little pin that prevents the wheel from 
sliding off the axle or, more generally, something that holds •	 The Man at the Top: The God-Machine appoints 
everything together. A Linchpin is a point in the God- an angel to take charge of a project disguised as a 
Machine’s Infrastructure that is weakest in some way. It corporation. The company’s CEO never gives press 
may be a spot where the gears are poorly hidden or loosely conferences in person and strictly forbids any cameras 
guarded, a particularly-exact occult matrix that can easily be on the same floor as his office. On those occasions 
disrupted, or Infrastructure that requires constant mainte- when he leaves his office, all security cameras in his 
nance or input. path are turned off. Why? Because while the angel 
•	 Suspicious Front: The front the God-Machine uses to can hide its nature from the human eye, it looks like 

conceal its project is particularly flimsy. For example, an angel in any photography.
a gas station near a lonely highway hasn’t updated •	 Breeding Project: The God-Machine intends for a 
its prices in many years, so that it has the cheapest particular boy to fall in love with a certain girl because 
gasoline this side of 1990, all the newspapers and it projects that their offspring will have a trait it needs 
magazines in the convenience store are 20 years old, for a future project. Coincidences abound to drive 
and the snack food has long since expired. The average the pair together, and it is probably only a matter of 
passerby may take advantage of the cheap fill-up with- time, now. Of course, if one of them were to die, be 
out noticing the low rumble in the ground below, but kidnapped, or simply fall in love with someone else, 
chances are he won’t come that way again. Someone the God-Machine’s project will fail.
looking for signs of God-Machine Infrastructure, 
however, is more likely to investigate further. •	 The Occupation: A large group of seemingly-invulner-

able monsters occupies a small town and imprisons its 
•	 Unfaithful Servant: Someone working on one the entire population. Even an investigator 10 miles away 

God-Machine’s projects turns traitor or just shoots can tell that something is definitely going on down there 
off his mouth at the wrong time. This living piece of just by looking through a pair of binoculars — circles of 
Infrastructure probably doesn’t know a tenth of what standing stones, daily human sacrifices, and even more 
he thinks he does, but he knows enough to jeopardize chilling sights. Rescue attempts seem hopeless. The 
the completion of the occult matrix. creatures are too tough to fight and not quite stupid 

•	 Lazy Scrubbers: The creatures the God-Machine enough to trick. However, they are incredibly vulnerable 
sends to scrub a piece of obsolete Infrastructure do to a commonly-available substance. Can enough of it 
a half-assed job or get interrupted in the middle of be brought into play to defeat these monsters before 
their work, and they leave behind some clue to the the God-Machine brings in reinforcements?
truth that investigators may discover. This may include •	 Seraphim: Once brought forth by an occult matrix, 
hints about the purpose of the angel summoned by most angels have ways to stay in this world until the 
the scrubbed Infrastructure — maybe even enough for God-Machine no longer needs them, but the angel 
someone to stop it. directing the God-Machine’s current project is not 

175 
Mainspring



most angels. Its incredible power makes a direct con- always simply forces it to find another way to achieve the 
frontation suicidal, and the Infrastructure it is build- Output of the project.
ing has no obvious Linchpin. However, if someone Keep in mind here that “reward” doesn’t mean “freedom 
were to prevent the God-Machine’s cultists making the from consequences.” Those who throw rocks at a hornet’s 
sacrifices that fuel the angel’s continued presence, it nest might be rewarded with the satisfaction of knocking it 
would be ripped from our world and banished to the off the tree branch, but they’d better be ready to run like 
place from which it came. hell when those angry hornets boil out. Studying the God-

Machine too closely attracts its attention — thwarting it, 
•	 If You Can’t Beat Them: The God-Machine is used even more so. As it tends to express this by silencing those 

to having human worshipers, and it can always find who disturb its projects, every attack on the God-Machine’s 
some use for these cultists. The cultists themselves are Infrastructure is an increasingly-dangerous proposal. This 
not always very good at screening new members for isn’t because the God-Machine is vengeful. Humans are 
signs that, say, a postulant intends to infiltrate the cult practically beneath its notice, such that it considers mortal 
in order to investigate the God-Machine or thwart its disruption of a project a mere environmental hazard — the 
designs. Part of this is the natural human desire to win way a home builder may regard an unusually rainy year an 
others over to one’s ideals. Part of it is the knowledge expensive, but otherwise unavoidable, risk of the business.
that the God-Machine quite often devours cultists in However, the God-Machine doesn’t typically respond 
the course of its projects, and those who bring in fresh quickly to threats. Its servants, angelic or otherwise, certainly 
meat to fuel its designs are significantly less likely to can, of course, but as gods go, it seldom summons a hurricane 
end up being put through the grinder themselves. where a convenient car accident will achieve the same results. 
The God-Machine doesn’t reward the loyalty of its Presented with a coordinated assault on its projects from 
tools, per se, but it recognizes the difference between many different angles in rapid succession, the God-Machine 
a hammer and a nail. might become desperate. It might begin to make mistakes. In 

Striking a Linchpin successfully should always carry some its haste to crush this unexpected rebellion it might finally 
reward. Greater understanding of the God-Machine’s designs tip its hand and reveal its true purpose.
is the most likely. Investigators might even thwart one of the Unfortunately, that’s not usually the way these kinds of 
God-Machine’s projects, although this sort of victory almost tales end.

176 
the face in the mirror Characters



Free Will
It may be tempting as a Storyteller to fall into the trap of having the God-Machine thwart the characters at 
every turn or otherwise render their victories ultimately meaningless. To a certain extent, this is in keeping 
with the themes of the chronicle. The God-Machine is an incomprehensibly huge antagonist. The actions of 
humans have virtually no effect on it, and it should feel that way. Save this town from being devoured by 
supernatural ants, and the God-Machine simply chooses another town in another country to turn into magi-
cal ant food. There’s nothing the characters can do to stop that.
Maybe a major victory over the God-Machine must wait until late in the chronicle, but that doesn’t mean the 
characters achieve nothing until they are powerful enough to pack the gears the God-Machine has hidden 
beneath the Great Sphinx with explosives and set off the charges. They might not wrestle angels and win, 
at first, but they can save this town from sinking into the earth, drive out the agents of the God-Machine in 
this city council, or stop this teacher from being falsely accused of sexually abusing his students. And if they 
do, the God-Machine will take its project elsewhere and leave the people the players’ characters saved in 
peace.
And as they tally up these little victories, the characters learn more. They start seeing the gears. They have 
a better understanding of what the God-Machine’s Infrastructure looks like. They become more effective at 
identifying and exploiting Linchpins. They’re inching closer and closer to the truth about the God-Machine, 
whatever it might be. When the time comes to bring the chronicle to its final climax, they’ll hopefully be 
ready for it — or at least as ready as anyone who means to fight a god can be.

Optional Rule: Fate
Faced with the seemingly arbitrary cruelties of the Chronicles of Darkness, mortals who get a glimpse at 
what lurks in the shadows sometimes take comfort in the idea that everything has a reason. No matter how 
bad things get, there is a plan, even if it seems impossible to see. Those who look a little deeper, glimpsing 
the workings of the God-Machine, know better. There is a plan for everyone, but that isn’t a good thing for 
those concerned.
To represent this, The God-Machine Chronicle includes an option called Fate, a special type of Aspiration. 
Fate denotes an extra part of the character’s concept: what is the end of their story? The Fate doesn’t have to 
come to pass within play, but characters that come out the other side of a God-Machine adventure without 
having met their Fate haven’t escaped it, only postponed it.
Use the following guidelines to design a Fate:
•	Fate leaves the character alive (or undead, in some circumstances) and suffering, or kills them in a suit-

ably traumatic fashion. “Killed” is not a Fate, but “Murdered” is.
•	Fate imposes a great change in the character’s circumstances, irrevocably changing her life for the worse.
•	 Fate describes the what of the character’s doom, not the how or the when. “Murdered” is a suitable Fate. 

“Murdered by my brother” is not, and neither is “Murdered at my moment of victory”.
Good examples include “Addicted,” “Betrayed,” “Imprisoned,” or “Transformed.”
Fulfilling a Fate is often a good time to start a new character – consider it the equivalent of writing a char-
acter out of a television series after her arc climaxes. That’s not mandatory, however. If a Fate is met before 
the chronicle ends, or a new chronicle is planned using the same characters after one has already met their 
doom, the player selects a new Fate.
In play, Fate works like other Aspirations, except that it provides a full Experience when fulfilled. (If the 
Fate removes the character from play, her player can spend this Experience on her next character.) Also, 
when a character’s action would lead her towards her Fate, her player gains only two dice from spending 
Willpower, but gets the Willpower point back if the action fails.

177 
Mainspring






Wilson was getting TIRED of the SCREAMS. Most times they didn’t bother him, 
but TONIGHT the CONSTANT RACKET was giving him a headache. He twirled the cap 
off a bottle of aspirin and grimly chewed up three tablets, washing the grit 

down with a swig of coffee. He lit a cigarette, breathed in, exhaled, and 
watched as the smoke curled toward the monitors surrounding him.

He leaned back in his swivel chair, putting his feet up on the CONTROL con-
sole, and looked around. The room probably held 100 screens. Probably. He’d 

started counting them once, but had gotten BORED around 58. Each monitor had a 
name taped to it, and each name was followed by a symbol. Wilson had no idea 

what the symbols meant and was pretty sure HE DIDN’T WANT TO KNOW.

Tonight it was Jayla A. that was making all the NOISE. He took a look at her 
screen and sighed. The girl on the monitor MIGHT have been pretty once, if a 
little too thin for his tastes. By the stubble on her shaved head, she might 
have been blonde. Blondes were alright by him, but so were brunettes and red-
heads. The STRAIGHT-JACKET that embraced her like an overzealous LOVER was too 
bulky to give away any hints about her chest, and the utility smock worn by all 

the…patients was as formless and ILL-fitting as a sack.

The expression on Jayla A.’s face didn’t help much, either. Her eyes were 
wide and staring at HORRORS only she could see. Her mouth was so DISTENDED by 

her shrieks he wondered if she was in danger of DISLOCATING her jaw. Wilson eyed 
the screen for another second as the girl continued to wail, then thumbed the 

microphone button for her room.

“HEY, LADY. HOW ABOUT YOU SHUT THE HELL UP?”
For a wonder, the girl quieted. She turned her GAZE toward the camera in her 
room and smiled, revealing rows of DISQUIETINGLY white teeth. Jayla A. opened 

her mouth again, wider, if that was even possible, but, instead of screams, the 
HISS OF RADIO STATIC squealed out from between her lips.

Wilson paled and immediately slammed his fist down on a large, red button. 
The overhead lights started to flicker as the generators cycled up. The sounds 

coming from Jayla A.’s mouth began to clarify, like an 
unknown operator was tuning in to a new 

FREQUENCY. He could almost begin to make 
out WORDS AMONGST THE STATIC, and 

watched in horror as the walls of 
her room began to ripple, as if 
someone had tossed a pebble 

into a still pond.

The first imprints of 
what he sincerely hoped 
weren’t hands had begun 
to push at the thinning 

REALITY of the walls be-
fore the generators hit 
full power and bright, 

jagged lines of electric-
ity danced in Jayla A.’s 
room. Her body spasmed 
as the current flowed 
through her, light-

ning crackling over her 
skin. The sounds com-

ing from her mouth were 
cut off, and the walls 
returned to the NORMAL 

grey of concrete as the 
girl was shocked into 

unconsciousness.

Wilson wiped sweat 
from his forehead and 
shakily lit another 

cigarette. 



Shards of the Divine: 
Building the  
God-Machine 

Chronicle
Telling a good story is a lot of work. It’s fun work, to be sure, but it still takes 

time and dedication. This holds true whether you have taken on the role of 
Storyteller and must present a new world for the players to explore, or whether 
you are a player fleshing out the final details of a new character. This chapter aims 
to make all that work easier, by providing suggestions and structure for creating 
characters, stories, and settings for God-Machine chronicles.

Before we discuss the God-Machine and what sorts of stories your troupe can 
tell with it, we need to discuss the concept of tiers. 

The Tiers
No matter the medium, every story has a scope that provides boundaries and 

context for that story. You wouldn’t expect a film set in a small town to suddenly 
explode into a globe-hopping extravaganza. The concept of tiers provides this ele-
ment in Chronicles of Darkness games. 

By now, Chronicles of Darkness players might be familiar with the idea of using 
Into this wild-beast different tiers as a way to set expectations for the direction of a chronicle. For those 

tangle these men had unfamiliar with them, tiers were introduced in Hunter: The Vigil, but the concept is 
been born without their not unique to that game. Tiers are just another tool for building a chronicle. Setting 
consent, they had taken a chronicle at a certain tier gives players an idea of what to expect. It’s also possible 
part in it because they for a chronicle to begin at one tier and slide up or down to end up at a different 
could not help it; that tier. The four tiers are local, regional, global and cosmic.
they were in jail was 
no disgrace to them, 

for the game had never Local
been fair, the dice were Games set in the local tier are narrow in scope, but not shallow in depth. These 

loaded. sorts of games are generally set in a limited location, involve normal folks, and 
have consequences that are more important to the individual than the masses. 

 —Upton Sinclair,  As an example, the Wellington School (p. 205) educates children with behavioral 
The Jungle difficulties. The reason for these troubled children is actually the absence of the 

God-Machine’s influence. What might the God-Machine inflict upon these 
children to resolve such a problem? 

Ghost stories are good examples of local stories. Typically, a small group of 
characters is trapped in a single location. Over the course of the story they slowly 
discover the secrets behind the haunting, which may or may not include ideas 
about how to stop the marauding specter. The backstory about how the ghost 
came to be provides a glimpse into the greater reality of the universe, without 
drawing the characters completely into that reality.

You’ve probably seen movies that could be described as belonging to the local 
tier. Attack the Block is about what happens when aliens invade a British council 
estate (i.e. housing project). The stakes involved could be described as global 
(alien invasion), but the scale of the movie is local. The kids that fight off aliens 
aren’t worried about what might happen if aliens take over the world. They’re 
only concerned with what the aliens could do to them and their neighborhood.

180 
Shards of the Divine-Building the God Machine Chronicle



For a God-Machine Chronicle, a local tier means local Local Organization:  
consequences. The backstory of the game can be as in-depth 
as you like, including speculations about the cosmic possibili- The Cult of the Wheel
ties of the God-Machine, but keep the end closer to home. Words have power. Words can echo through the world 
This can be accomplished in a number of different ways. and come to the ears of people that can only dimly recognize 

One method to keep the scale local is to only include the power of the words spoken. Such is the case with the Cult 
the repercussions of the God-Machine. Strip mining ex- of the Wheel. They heard the words of the Pain Prophet echo-
poses a previously unknown cave to the light of day. Work ing along the vaults of the sky, trembling down the frame of 
is halted as baffled geologists investigate. Dark, winged the God-Machine, but they heard it in the same way children 
horrors rise up from the depths of the cave and proceed to might receive a message at the tail end of the telephone game.
butcher anyone they can catch. They gnaw on machinery, Some parts of the Marco Singe’s message were garbled, 
they demolish equipment. It’s up to the survivors of the others came through in terrible clarity, but the one phrase 
initial attack to flee or fight. Whether they live or die, the that vibrated with meaning for the Cult was simple enough. 
problem doesn’t extend beyond the local. What has fallen may rise again. The few that heard the message 

In this case, for whatever reason, the God-Machine has deciphered it as a metaphor for the Great Wheel, the Perfect 
decided the strip mine must be shut down. By opening Circle. They registered the meaning as one of the great axioms 
the cave mouth, the chance to stop the attack has already of this world: What goes around comes around.
passed and people must deal with the repercussions. This The Cult of the Wheel exists to bring change, to push the 
leaves the God-Machine in the background and uses its Great Wheel. They understand that all great things have small 
minions as the obvious threat. At most, the bottom of the beginnings and devoutly believe in the power of the Perfect 
cave might reveal some connection to the God-Machine, Circle, the force others might ignorantly refer to as karma. 
like an ancient, rusting portal of unknown origin or a pool The members of the Cult smile tolerantly at the notion the 
of absolute darkness that occasionally shimmers with static Perfect Circle can be defined as simply as the balance between 
like a TV on the fritz. actions that are subjectively good and actions that are subjec-

Another method to keep it local is to use a single agent tively evil. Who can declare any act is ultimately good or evil 
of the God-Machine as the basis for the story. This could when they can’t see the invisible hand of the God-Machine at 
be an angelic visitation, a group of cultists or a child that work? Humans understand as little about what truly motivates 
suddenly manifests the ability to read minds. For those with them as an ant might comprehend the foot that crushes it 
a more literary bent, the book Needful Things by Stephen from above.
King is one example of how a single agent of chaos can cause Good and evil are impossible. Order, however, is possible. 
serious damage to a town. H.P. Lovecraft’s The Colour Out Order and chaos circle each other on the Great Wheel and 
of Space is another solid example of a story within the local it is humanity’s ability to impose order upon chaos that has 
tier with connections to a broader theme. lifted it above the other animals of the world. The Cult of the 

This method gives the characters a chance to oppose Wheel believes the God-Machine strives toward order above 
or support the will of the God-Machine as they see fit. It all things and that humans are its misguided tools. Each time 
presents a problem with potential solutions. The results man imposes order on his surroundings, the God-Machine 
of their decision should have a lasting effect on the local blesses his efforts. The blessings of the God-Machine are 
scene. A group of doomsday cultists sets up shop in town. what bring happiness, comfort and all else humans ignorantly 
They begin slowly converting everyone to their cause, with define as good.
the goal of a mass suicide to appease the God-Machine (not The true number of members (or Wrights) of the Cult 
that the God-Machine needs or wants appeasement). This of the Wheel is unknown, even by the Cult. Wrights leave 
is a local problem that can be fought, and results in local active Spokes and form new ones on a regular basis. Each 
consequences. Spoke puts down roots in a location where chaos has begun 

One last possible method for keeping a story local draws to overwhelm order. This includes areas suffering from urban 
on the sort of circumstances typical of the aforementioned blight, severe economic depression, ecological disaster, and 
ghost story. The characters are trapped someplace by the violent conflict.
workings of the God-Machine. Maybe the God-Machine Communication between Spokes is common, but only 
twists reality to draw the characters into a house of doors. to share news, rather than acting as part of a coordinating 
It tests them like a scientist tests a mouse in a maze, look- effort. Capable Wrights travel the world, acting as explorer-
ing for the one that can open the doors in just the right missionaries, seeking out the workings of the God-Machine 
sequence to escape. that exist wholly in this reality. They pass on the locations 

In this case the characters are highly likely to learn at they’ve discovered where the God-Machine can been seen 
least a little about the God-Machine during their efforts to and touched. New Spokes settle at these locations and begin 
escape or survive. This method generally works best for a the work of bringing order.
one-shot game or as the kickoff for a chronicle. In the ex- Members of the Cult of the Wheel are generally well 
ample above, the God-Machine will likely have future plans educated and frequently have some sort of background in 
for whichever character figures out the doors. charitable work. Many are religious as well. These Wrights 

181 
Local



don’t see any conflict between their beliefs. They are certain Chronicles set in the regional tier frequently seem like 
it’s no accident that angels appear so often in religious texts. they have the potential to get out of control. Even if the 
After all, angels are the first servants of the God-Machine. survival of the characters isn’t the highest stake, using the 
The leader of each Spoke puts aside his or her given name background threat of, “Oh shit, the whole world could end 
and takes up a new name, complete with the surname Hub, up like this!” isn’t bad form. 
to show sublimation of the self and devotion to the Great As an example, MIT creates a new generation of nanobots 
Wheel. that get out of the laboratory and begin to reproduce. In their 

No two Spokes use the same methodology to bring order search for energy, they latch onto anything that produces 
from chaos, preferring to tailor their solutions to the problem electricity, bringing down the grid before shorting out. Why? 
at hand and the capabilities of their Wrights. One group It’s all because the God-Machine requires an hour of total 
might decide to combat an oil spill by spearheading a wider darkness during a solar eclipse. The background threat is what 
community effort at clean up, while another might decide might happen if a couple of nanobots make it to new sources 
to engineer the downfall (or outright destruction) of the of power and begin spreading across the planet.
companies responsible for the disaster. The Cult isn’t above The shadow government from the X-Files is a fantastic 
using violence to accomplish its goals. Sometimes the best example of the hidden system. No one really had any idea who 
solution to a problem is to simply to crush it. they were actually reporting to, even the people at the top. It 

The Cult of the Wheel believes it can influence the isn’t hard to come up with ideas for similar organizations. In 
God-Machine, and thus the Great Wheel, through the use this age of smartphones, nearly everyone has a camera and a 
of mathematical sorcery. The equations drawn out in syn- digital video-recording device in their pocket. How is it that 
thetic lubricants and surrounded by circles of iron filings no one has managed to capture pictures or video that blows 
would baffle most mathematicians, but the Hub of each the roof off the supernatural world?
Spoke claims to draw inspiration from the God-Machine In the U.S., the group responsible for suppressing this 
itself. Occasionally, it does seem as though these efforts have kind of proof is a militant hacker organization given power 
tangible results. The Spoke in Detroit is certain it averted a and (they believe) authority by an angel. They developed 
catastrophe by summoning an angel to the city. malware that scours the internet, deletes files from mo-

bile devices and purges computers. People that keep hard 

Regional copies are hunted down using tracing algorithms and are 
either “encouraged” to recant or simply vanish. The hack-

The regional tier raises the stakes by increasing the scope ers believe they are in charge, but what if someone else is 
of consequences. Instead of a single problem with local con- actually pulling their strings? This is the regional hidden 
sequences, the God-Machine includes entire cities, nations, system at work.
or even continents in its plans. The regional tier expands Actual gear-and-grease appearances of the God-Machine 
the scope of a chronicle exponentially. Solutions lead to new in the regional tier are much more overt than at the local tier. 
problems; whole battalions of the God-Machine’s agents can The U.S. contains thousands of ghost towns. These include 
be involved, and the shadowy workings of the hidden world places that were big during a mining boom or company towns 
can become more exposed. that were abandoned when the jobs went overseas. What if 

At this tier, the theme and mood of a God-Machine these towns were really constructed to hide the mechanical 
Chronicle become more apparent. Every organization has a guts of the God-Machine? Every basement is filled with 
hidden master (or masters) and the feeling of being a cog in crackling conduits, clanging pipes, or whirring belts. When 
a machine, of straining against an unknown and unknowable enough towns have been completed, the long dormant fault 
system, should begin to weigh on the characters. lines in the Midwest will begin to move, dumping out the 

The press jokes that a certain congressional candidate Great Lakes and creating a water shortage beyond the worst 
is robotic, but the characters aren’t laughing. Lacking the dreams of environmentalists.
perfect instrument for its designs, the God-Machine made Regional chronicles can also take the form of the road 
a man from clockwork parts and vat-grown flesh. A seat in trip. If symptoms of the God-Machine’s meddling crop up 
Congress is just the first step toward a presidential bid. How all over the country, characters will need to travel in order to 
does the troupe fight that without one of them becoming take the fight to the God-Machine. Road tripping can also act 
the next Lee Harvey Oswald? as one method of trying to keep ahead of the God-Machine’s 

If we look to the big screen for examples of the regional agents. Midnight Roads goes into the details of this sort of 
tier, 28 Days Later comes to mind. The rage virus sweeps chronicle, but if your troupe doesn’t have access to the book, 
across England, turning the majority of its citizens into vi- plenty of inspiration can be found in popular media (such 
cious, zombie-like predators. Because England is an island, as the television show Supernatural).
the disease cannot make the jump across the Channel and 
infect Europe as well. The movie is about people trying to Regional Organization: The Black Tide
survive the regional problem of a deadly disease. The virus 
has the potential to shift up the scale to become a global Theories abound about the Bermuda Triangle. People 
problem, but that isn’t what the movie is about. claim the disappearances that happen there are the results 

182 
Shards of the Divine-Building the God Machine Chronicle



of everything from alien abduction to magnetic anomalies. 
One group that believes they know exactly what is going on 
is the Black Tide. 

The Black Tide is a secret occult organization (they 
disdain the word “cult”) that is dedicated to the study and 
exploitation of the Bermuda Triangle. The founder of the 
Black Tide was a man named Sava Vaselko, captain of 
the trading vessel, Bagrem. Vaselko plied the waves of the 
Caribbean during the mid-1800s and supplemented his 
income with a bit of casual piracy.

During a trip to Florida during the American Civil War, 
Vaselko sought to outmaneuver the Union blockade by de-
touring into the Bermuda Triangle. The night turned foggy, 
and although he had previously scoffed at rumors about the 
area, Vaselko’s blood went cold when his clock first stopped, 
then began to run backward. For what seemed like hours, 
the Bagrem floated along in the fog, drifting with the current.

When lights appeared on the horizon, Vaselko pointed 
his ship directly toward them and ordered his sails rigged to 
capture every gust of wind. As the Bagrem inched toward the 
lights, the captain began to make out a landmass. At last, the 
wind began to pick up, blowing the fog away and revealing 
an island shining with illumination. 

Great buildings towered into the sky, conforming to no 
architecture Vaselko had ever seen during his many travels. 
Strange sigils painted on the sides of the buildings glowed 
and flashed in every color of the rainbow, but, as the ship 
drew closer, he couldn’t hear a single sound coming from 
the island. Without warning the Bagrem gave a lurch, like it 
had hit a reef, and the air was filled with flames. 

Two more explosions followed and the last thing Vaselko 
remembered before being tossed into the sea was the sight 
of his ship sinking fast, crew scattered about it in the water. 
Vaselko awoke two months later in a sanitarium in Cuba. He 
had been found clinging to a piece of the mast just offshore. 
No other sign of his ship or crew were ever found.

Although he was never certain of what had happened 
to his ship, Vaselko believed he had seen the lost island of 
Atlantis. The style of architecture he had witnessed matched 
with many descriptions and paintings of the legendary island. 
He believed Atlantis never sank, as the stories insisted, rather 
it had been placed just out of time with the rest of the world.

As he investigated Triangle lore, Vaselko became certain he 
detected a trend in disappearances. Times of great bloodshed 
and death in the area coincided with an increase in reports of 
missing ships. In the aftermath of hurricanes, these disappear-
ances would be blamed on the storm, but Vaselko thought he 
knew better. He theorized that whatever was keeping Atlantis 
hidden out of time might collapse if fed enough death.

Vaselko gathered associates that were equally intrigued by 
Triangle lore and even more so by the possible riches to be 
had by claiming Atlantis if it could be forced to reappear. He 
called the fledging organization the Black Tide, as a reference 
to the wave of death that would precede Atlantis’ emergence. 
In 1870, ignoring the laughter of bureaucrats and clerks, he 
filed a series of claims to Atlantis with every nation within 
20 nautical miles of where he believed it would appear.

183 
Regional



God-Machine are world changing and the hidden system spans 
continents. Wars begin at the behest of angels, the Illuminati 

Best of Both Worlds pushes its agenda for the New World Order, and the resulting 
body count enters the realm of mind-numbing statistics. Any 

The common themes in the Tales of the God-
Machine are time travel, causality, and sweep- victories won are fleeting or, conversely, are so complete that 

ing, cosmic change. One of the advantages to the victors become the new mechanics for the God-Machine.
including elements like these in your chronicle is Television shows and movies are replete with stories that 
that it allows your troupe to change everything, could be set in the global tier. The Walking Dead is one ex-
but still go home to the reality they know and love ample, as is a disaster movie such as 2012. Either one could 
afterwards. Pulling this off so that it doesn’t feel be the result of the God-Machine breaking down, or just 
cheap or forced is difficult, but not impossible. It’s deciding humans have gotten out of line one time to many. 
just a matter of making sure that the characters The Call of Cthulhu is a global tier story, as are many of the 
have something to accomplish — maybe putting James Bond movies. If the stakes leave your troupe wonder-
the world back the way it was is their goal, and ing if humanity will (or should) survive, you’re hitting the 
when it’s all over, the hard choice they must make right tone. If a conspiracy seems so vast that only the most 
is whether or not to keep their memories of what 
almost happened. paranoid of conspiracy theorists would give it credence, you’re 

on the right track.
At this tier the possible consequences of a problem cease 

to be background and ride right up in your face. Let’s say 
The ex-captain was content to wait for the island’s appear- vampires decide to end the age-old practice of keeping their 

ance, assuming that mankind would fabricate enough death existence secret. Maybe they’ve had one too many media 
on its own to collapse the time bubble (as he’d begun to think slipups or maybe staying in the coffin has become just too 
of it). He was still waiting while on his death bed in 1912. damn hard with all the modern technology and CCTV about. 
The Black Tide reformed after his death and, less patient, The question that must be answered for this scenario, 
began to pursue means of forcing the bubble to break. These from the point of view of a God-Machine chronicle, is what 
studies eventually wandered into the arcane and it was here do the hidden system and the God-Machine itself think about 
the first member heard whispers about the God-Machine. this situation? Perhaps the God-Machine decides the best 

The Black Tide theorizes that the people of Atlantis solution is to thin the vampiric herd. Remember that the 
found a way to communicate with the God-Machine, and it God-Machine prefers to be subtle. Instead of just rearranging 
banished them for their hubris. Not even the God-Machine the Earth so that every vampire gets a serious case of sunburn, 
is all-powerful, however, which accounts for mass deaths basi- try to envision a more subtle solution. One possibility is to 
cally overloading the circuits that keep the island suspended in engineer a virus that is moderately harmful to humans and 
time. Uncovering even a single truth about the God-Machine highly contagious, but is fatal to every vampire who contracts 
would be a treasure beyond anything ever dreamt of by Vaselko. it. The human immune system will eventually adapt, leaving 

While the Black Tide isn’t nearly magically potent enough to humans as carriers and suddenly making it much more dif-
whip up storms of its own, it can add momentum to them. They ficult for vampires to feed. 
push tropical storms to become hurricanes, and hurricanes to Many Storytellers have an aversion to world-changing 
become catastrophes. The organization proved Vaselko’s theory events when it comes to running games in the Chronicles of 
to be true in 2005. The island itself actually reappeared for an Darkness. One of the appealing things about the Chronicles 
entire minute after Katrina rolled through the region. of Darkness is how closely they resemble our world, and so 

Other attempts have been made (such as the Gulf oil spill) adding out-in-the-open supernatural elements, apocalyptic 
with lesser amounts of success, but the Black Tide is nowhere events, or hard sci-fi changes the setting a great deal. In a 
near to giving up the fight. Members of the organization have global-tier story, it can be tempting to go all out, change 
begun to whisper about a cataclysmic event — orchestrated the world, and revel in the chaos of altering everything. Of 
by the Black Tide — that will devastate the entire Caribbean. course, not every world-changing event needs to be quite that 

Members of the Black Tide come from every strata of spectacular. Ideas can change the world just as readily as a 
society and include powerful politicians, military leaders, tentacled horror the size of the Eiffel Tower. Anyone that 
wealthy businessmen, and, in the tradition of its founder, remembers 9/11 should be able to testify to the efficacy of a 
ship captains. Information about the organization is scarce single event changing how people think. In the years following 
and its members obey an omertà-like code of silence. Anyone the attacks, security was beefed up to almost paranoid levels 
attempting to oppose the Black Tide not only faces well-armed at airports. Not everyone is on board with the new measures, 
goons, but a legion of lawyers and political influence. but enough people are on board to let what would have pre-

viously been loudly denounced as a grotesque violation of 

Global civil liberties become something to merely grumble about.
An important thing to keep in mind when running 

Chronicles set in the global tier shift focus to include chronicles set at the global tier is to make whatever is going 
the entire world as the stage. At this level, the designs of the on personally important to the characters. If World War III 

184 
Shards of the Divine-Building the God Machine Chronicle



suddenly kicked off but remained (as was the case with World Amassing wealth was a simple task for one that had chal-
War II) mainly outside the bounds of mainland USA, the lenged gods and, within a century, Zür controlled an empire 
Storyteller would need to provide American characters with from his home under the mountains. 
up close and personal examples of how the war was affecting Zür gathered apprentices to him, to act as proxies in his 
them, even if the characters weren’t directly involved. Family battles with the other fire-touched, forming a large cabal to 
and friends being drafted to serve is an obvious example, but serve his needs. Legions of mortals flocked to Zür’s banner, 
fuel rationing or material shortages could also play a part. some knowingly, most with no idea who their true master was. 

Not every chapter in a global-tier chronicle has to take Others of the fire-touched, those who had survived his attacks 
place on the world stage. Storytellers are encouraged to drop and potential rivals, learned from his example and began to 
back down to local stories to bring home the point of global build their own financial empires to oppose him. Now wars 
events. As an example, a geoengineering project suddenly were fought as often on paper as on the battlefield, with 
goes bad. Aluminum oxide particles are released into the casualties including the economic welfare of entire nations.
troposphere to reduce the amounts of radiation bombarding The battles continue to this day. People fight petty wars, 
the planet. Rather than working as designed, the particles rig elections, and assassinate influential pawns, all of it fueled 
react in a manner scientists can’t explain and plunge the by increasingly-large amounts of capital. The closest mortals 
entire world into darkness. have come to seeing the truth was when a British politician 

The characters are busy running around the globe, chas- made a joke about Swiss bankers, calling them the “Gnomes 
ing down the hidden system responsible for eternal night, of Zürich.” The only things that have kept Zür from own-
when they hear the news that riots have broken out in their ing the world are his ongoing rivalries with the remaining 
home town. Violent gangs of looters are threatening the lives fire-touched.
of Contacts, Allies, friends and family. Fixing the problem 
of a world shrouded in darkness remains the main focus of Cosmic
the chronicle, but the immediate, personal, problem becomes 
saving people important to the characters. This type of local Stories set in the cosmic tier are frequently chronicle 
scenario can bring some context to a global chronicle and endgames. While it is certainly possible to set an entire 
make the whole story seem more visceral. chronicle at the cosmic level, the troupe runs the risk of los-

ing touch with reality. This tier allows players to transcend 
Global Organization:  global conspiracies to become part of the hidden system. It 

allows troupes to make serious alterations to the plans of the 
The Gnomes of Zürich God-Machine or possibly rewrite its programming. Players 

In the days of myth and legend, the gods were all-powerful, will stand toe to toe with angels, demons, and the things 
and then Prometheus stole fire from the gods and gave it to that exist outside our reality.
mortals. The first mortals touched by the fire of the gods be- So how the hell does a Storyteller run a cosmic chronicle? 
came mystics and wizards, shamans and priests, channeling the One way to get a grasp on the cosmic is to look to popular 
source of creation toward their own selfish ends. Eventually the media for inspiration on how to proceed. 2001: A Space 
stolen fire ebbed to mere cinders, and the greedy fire-touched Odyssey is a cosmic-tier story. The main character transcends 
mortals sought to ascend to the heavens to supplant the gods human limitations to become the Star Child. If you consider 
and warm themselves by the divine fire for all eternity. the obelisk to be an agent of the God-Machine, you get a 

As in most stories of unbridled hubris, this story ended cosmic-tier story. The series of stories by H.P. Lovecraft col-
badly. The God-Machine destroyed their civilization, and over lectively referred to as The Dream Cycle is another example. 
time the remaining fire-touched retreated to the corners of the The real world is only tangentially important to the story, 
world, bickering with each other and licking their wounds. but the effects of the story can have real-world consequences.
The survivors began to plot anew, scheming to discover a new In more of a pulp vein, Stargate SG-1 can be viewed as a 
means of achieving power. They denied the God-Machine and cosmic-tier story. The stakes involved are important for the 
struck all memory of it from the minds of men, shrouding future of Earth, but also go far, far beyond what happens to a 
it in sorcery. It was their foolish belief that a thing forgotten single planet. If Fringe added a couple more alternate worlds, 
would lose all power. In time, they even began to believe the it would also qualify. Any number of movies that focus on 
lie themselves and banished the God-Machine from their time travel could work for the cosmic tier, particularly those 
thoughts. They created new myths to explain the fall of the in which multiple parties are working simultaneously to 
ziggurat, passing down the story to their apprentices. change or maintain the past.

With no hope of reaching the divine fire, the fire-touched Even more so than the global tier, chronicles that end 
settled on amassing earthly power and dominion over man- in, or are set in, the cosmic tier should expect to see mas-
kind. They formed cabals and alliances, and battled each sive changes to the fictional world your troupe has created. 
other in the hidden recesses of the world. At some point one Hacking the God-Machine might result in continents vanish-
of their number, a man named Zür, recognized the growing ing, divergent timelines or even the entire works just freezing 
influence commerce held over mortals. He realized power up. An antagonist that develops a taste for the flesh of angels 
over his rivals could be had for as little as a handful of gold. might not only gain power, but might also keep that same 

185 
Cosmic



from the God-Machine worked. The Mechanists were able to 
modify, amplify, and power the purloined devices to a degree 

Inspiration that they started to provide serious opposition to agents of 

The God-Machine Chronicle Anthology is a the God-Machine that came to put an end to their meddling. 

good source for getting a grip on the setting. The Even so, the threat to the God-Machine remained minimal. 
stories describe how the God-Machine and the Then came the computer.
hidden system operate and can provide inspira- Modern Mechanists aren’t content to simply steal a piece 
tion for Storytellers and players. or two of the God-Machine. They still do that, but they’ve 

also started fiddling with its programming. The results are 
less than predictable. A farmer Mechanist that has been 
getting by controlling the weather around his farm using a 

power from being rerouted to other dimensions where the device cobbled together from parts of the God-Machine might 
angel was next scheduled to appear. suddenly decide he can do better. The lackwit attempts to 

Stories set in the cosmic tier don’t automatically equal reprogram the section of the God-Machine he found when 
science fiction, either. In the Chronicles of Darkness, magic digging for a new well, using half-remembered coding he 
is frequently more potent than science. It’s entirely possible learned in high school. He might get rain showers or he 
that the God-Machine is a magical construct, rather than an might open a gateway to hell.
actual machine, and has promoted the use of science to blind If the results of their meddling remained local, this new 
humans to the reality around them. The entirety of creation attack on the God-Machine might not cause more than a few 
could also be faith based, if that tickles your fancy. Pick a god hiccups. The reality is that every time they tinker with the 
(plenty to choose from) and declare it, him, or her the one that God-Machine’s programming, they risk corrupting entire sub-
created the God-Machine. Maybe the deists were right after all. systems, which could eventually destabilize the entire system. 

Though it isn’t mandatory, picking a “truth” behind the Applied to Mechanists, the term organization is mislead-
God-Machine can be part of the cosmic-tier experience. This ing. Most work singly, a few in pairs and even fewer in groups. 
is what is commonly referred to as “learning that which man- It’s the net result of their work that places them in a single 
kind was not meant to know.” Maybe religion is the key and category. The majority of Mechanists recognize the name, 
prayers are what keep the God-Machine turning. All religions either from some sort of collective gestalt or from having 
were created by the God-Machine to ensure a steady supply borrowed it from the angels that hunt for them. Many are 
of fuel. Miracles and angels are basically just a show put on just tinkerers, content with having a leg up on their fellows 
by the God-Machine to ensure compliance. Whatever your thanks to owning (or controlling) such an advanced piece of 
troupe’s “truth” happens to be, simply having an inkling as technology. A rare few, maybe one in a hundred (making the 
to what’s really going on can be sanity destroying (depending number around one for every billion people) wants more.
on the character). These Mechanists have delusions of being techno-mages. 

They want to travel in time, visit distant planets, or step between 
Cosmic Organization: Mechanists worlds. They actively seek out and exploit any section of the 

God-Machine they can find, sometimes fighting turf wars against 
Assume for every 101 people that see the God-Machine other Mechanists to gain access to a particularly juicy segment. 

and manage to acquire a piece of it, 100 of them are dis- Mechanists with this sort of ambition are highly dangerous, hav-
patched by angels or otherwise don’t survive the night. ing fought angels and won. All it would take is one Mechanist to 
That still leaves one person that managed to tinker with the plug in the wrong device at the wrong place at the wrong time, 
God-Machine and avoid the consequences. Even then, that in an effort to hack the God-Machine’s programming, and the 
one person isn’t likely to have any idea what just happened. world — worlds, maybe — would pop like a bubble.
Every so often, though, that one person knows (or learns 
about) exactly what he’s done and what he’s found. That’s 
when the real trouble begins. Assembly Required

The original Mechanist probably emerged around the 
time the first complex machine was invented and likely in For a God-Machine Chronicle, the first step is to choose 
China. Archaeologists have found evidence of complex ma- a chronicle track (if you’re planning on playing long enough 
chinery in the Middle Kingdom as far back as 2,550 years to complete one) or to choose a Tale. For purposes of this 
ago. Early uses for the odds and ends pulled off the God- section, it doesn’t much matter, because the setting and 
Machine were fairly limited, right up until people figured character creation aspects work the same either way.
out the simplest form of batteries, roughly 600 years later. What part does the God-Machine play in the chronicle? 
Even then, the juice provided by these protobatteries wasn’t How about the hidden system, cogs in the machine? Asking 
enough to produce more than a couple sparks. some questions is a good headspace to get into before delv-

The first, serious, issues arose with the advent of modern ing into specifics.
electronics. For the first time in history, Mechanists began How much of the God-Machine will the characters witness 
to at least partially understand how the parts they’d stolen firsthand? Have they ever heard the term “God-Machine?” 

186 
Shards of the Divine-Building the God Machine Chronicle



Are the characters even aware of its existence? If they’ve never Consider the Wake the Dead Tale (p. 214). This tale re-
seen it, but still know about it, how did they learn about it? quires that one of the characters kill someone. As Storyteller, 
Do they have some sort of special significance to the God- you can leave that decision to the players, allowing one of 
Machine? How do the machinations of the God-Machine them to work the incident into her character’s backstory, but 
affect their daily lives? it might be preferable to know what you’re getting into. Maybe 

One of the basic tenets of a God-Machine Chronicle you stipulate, then, that one of the characters accidentally 
is that victory is fleeting. Unless operating at the global or runs over and kills a jogger late one night while driving home 
cosmic tier (see p. 180), Storytellers should consider how to from work. That is the jumping-off point for the story, or the 
make the players’ victories seem meaningful, even if they are inciting incident.
actually pyrrhic. Will making a dent in the hidden system be What the character decides to do after committing ve-
enough for the players, or will they want more? As mentioned hicular manslaughter can be played out as long as you like, 
at the end of the Introduction, it doesn’t all have to be doom depending on the type of story being told. This is misdirec-
and gloom; a win is a win, but there should be a sense that tion. None of the players are likely to believe a Storyteller 
something larger still looms over the horizon. would run an entire chronicle based on an accidental death, 

Other than the plethora of examples provided in this but most troupes will be happy to play along. It’s when the 
chapter, you can also gain some insight for the material by other dead bodies get up and start interacting with the living 
watching movies or reading books that have a dystopian feel. that the actual story begins.
These include The City of Lost Children, Brazil, Children of At this point the troupe doesn’t need to know that the dead 
Men, 1984, and any number of books or websites dedicated have returned to life due to a malfunction in the God-Machine. 
to conspiracy theories. All they know is that the dead are returning to life. Since these 

“resurrections” are a direct result of the one character’s little 
Spinning Cogs traffic accident, it’s a good idea to refer back to that incident 

somehow. Maybe the characters sees her victim when she looks 
Unless you want the God-Machine up front and clanking in the mirror, or she sees him hitchhiking as she’s driving. He 

from the beginning of the chronicle, some attempt at misdi- also smells like wet rust and his body is covered with impossibly 
rection can make the story more interesting. Begin simple, complex tattoos that weren’t there before he died.
but with a hook that a) establishes the modern-horror setting How the troupe deals with the dead is the first step of the 
and genre and b) demands the characters’ attention. God-Machine chronicle. The poor people probably have no 

187 
Assembly Required



idea why they aren’t dead. They have their own motivations 
and the “rules” of their return to life aren’t consistent. But Progression
the characters should be able to gain enough information After the characters learn that the God-Machine exists, 
from them to figure out that a man died who wasn’t supposed future stories in the same chronicle (or chapters in the story, 
to, and at that point, the players should know exactly which depending on how long you plan on the game running) don’t 
man they’re talking about. What happens after that is a dif- have to rely quite so much on secrecy. Because you have estab-
ferent question, and it depends on what the characters do to lished a common frame of reference for the characters, you 
resolve the situation. Note, though, that an entire story has can be a little more overt about elements like Infrastructure 
taken place but the characters don’t necessarily know that and Linchpins. Indeed, though the players may or may not 
the God-Machine exists, much less that it is responsible for know those terms, they will probably be looking for these 
the dead returning to life. items, searching for chinks in the God-Machine’s façade. 

Consider, too, that the players can portray multiple 

Into the Machine characters over the course of a God-Machine Chronicle. 
This can play into Fate and the conclusion of a Tale quite 

At some point during the chronicle, the characters need easily. Consider, for instance, the Urban Wandering Tale (p. 
to come into contact with the God-Machine and recognize 235). It’s entirely possible that all of the characters involved 
that the events causing the strangeness in their lives originate in this Tale might perish along the way, possibly shutting 
from something far stranger than they thought. This doesn’t off the nightmare realm and saving the world. If that story 
have to happen during the initial story; the decision should segues into Ghost Machine (p. 207), then, the characters for 
reflect how long of a chronicle the troupe is looking to play. that Tale might be haunted by the ghosts of their previous 

If, for example, the troupe was only planning on playing “incarnations.” 
through one story, then using the example above (the Wake Progression can also involve a change in tier. As discussed 
the Dead Tale), the Storyteller should underscore the strange in the appropriate section, a shift in tier doesn’t always have 
tattoos on the dead man’s body or that appear in visions of to go up. The characters might go from a cosmic-tier story to 
him. These tattoos match up with the marks of death on a local-tier story; they’ve saved the universe (or witnessed its 
the bodies of all of the returned dead, and put together they eventual demise), and now they need to interact with their 
form an alphabet, a machine language that the characters own neighborhood. How did their more grandiose experi-
can decipher. The characters can put in the research to learn ences change them? Can they bring themselves to care about 
about the God-Machine through the writings of Marco Singe local events any more, or does seeing beyond the veil of nor-
and Janet Cohen, and once they know (or think they know) malcy make their own personal lives that much more special? 
what they’re up against, the Storyteller can be a bit more overt. 

On the other hand, if the troupe is planning on a longer 
chronicle, then the Storyteller doesn’t have to reveal anything Chronicle Tracks
God-Machine related during the first story. Maybe the visions 
of the dead jogger show the tattoos, and the dead people A God-Machine Chronicle can be a multi-year process, 
have their marks, but deciphering the alphabet requires a taking a troupe through several different groups of characters 
cipher that the characters don’t have. They might be able to and ending up with some heady, horrifying, cosmic questions, 
convince a supporting character to help them break the code, or it can be played in the course of a single evening and never 
or they might put in the time to research it themselves. It’s leave one square mile in a city. However, as the saying goes, 
not until the next story that the characters begin to recognize you’ve got to start somewhere. 
the general outline of Infrastructure. It’s possible to complete Below are four chronicle tracks. Each track consists of five 
an entire Tale, in fact, and not trace the cause of anything Tales. The tracks, as presented, do not make any assumptions 
back to the God-Machine. about the characters, the locations, or the settings (except for 

Once the characters know the God-Machine exists, the assumptions that the Tales make), but even without those 
however long it takes, they should see its influence more assumptions, each track provides a “default” God-Machine 
frequently. Once the characters in the example of Wake Chronicle. Each track also provides notes on transitioning 
The Dead decipher the machine alphabet, for instance, they between the Tales. 
might see the characters from that alphabet in corporate 
logos, graffiti, people’s tattoos, or in a doctor’s signature on Protect and Serve
a prescription. How much of this is paranoia and how much 
is indicative of the saturation of the God-Machine into our In the Tales composing this track, the characters are acting 
world? The answer to that question depends on the chronicle in some official capacity. They might be soldiers, policemen, 
in question, considering mood, theme, and especially tier. investigators, or relief workers, but they take their marching 
The point is, though, that once the characters know the orders from someone. They probably wouldn’t choose to 
God-Machine is out there, they can’t not see it. fight the God-Machine, or even to know about it — but they 

are bound up inextricably in its programming by the time 
the story ends. 

188 
Shards of the Divine-Building the God Machine Chronicle



Themes
The characters are following orders. 

Does that make what they are doing any 
easier? If their superiors tell them to stop 
a serial killer who can clearly violate the 
laws of time and space, does the fact 
that he can violate those laws supersede 
what he is? 

Players should consider their char-
acters’ motivations very carefully. If 
a character is motivated by a sense of 
duty to his fellow man, at what point 
does that curdle? Does witnessing war 
in all of its historic, bloody glory make 
a soldier despair? Does he realize he is 
just one more body thrown into a meat 
grinder, a veritable drop in a bucket 
that, apparently, never wants for volume? 
Does seeing the world tear itself apart in 
the wake of a devastating illness make a 
doctor wonder if this is all worth saving? 

Sequence
The Key (p. 208)  The Hatching 
(p. 226)  Operation: Bell Jar 
(p. 221)  What Is It Good For 
(p.233)  The Scarlet Plague (p. 
225)

Progression
This track starts with The Key be-

cause tracking a serial killer is something 
that the players should be able to under-
stand. Police procedurals make for good 
inspiration for this opening story, as do 
movies like The Silence of the Lambs and 
Insomnia. The characters might be police 
officers in the various cities affected, 
or they could be a specialist team from 
a variety of different agencies. Stretch 
suspension of disbelief if you need to; 
this is obviously a special case. 

The Key  The Hatching
The Hatching, as written, doesn’t as-

sume the characters have any particular 
training or expertise, but coming on chronicle track’s theme of following orders, maybe the charac-
the heels of The Key, it might be that the God-Machine spe- ters’ superiors find evidence that Wesley was in Liberty Park 
cifically chooses these characters to save the world. Maybe, and might have left behind evidence. Once the characters 
after disposing of Wesley Cote, the characters receive a visit are there, The Hatching progresses as written. 
from a version of him that never succumbed to his murder-
ous nature. This Wesley reveals that he is the true Key, and The Hatching  Operation: Bell Jar
tells them that they need to be in Liberty State Park at the This transition is probably the trickiest, because it involves 
appropriate day and time. Or, if you want to keep with this taking a group of characters who are likely cops and changing 

189 
Chronicle Tracks



it to a group of special ops soldiers. One recommendation Players should be aware that they are likely to lose a few 
would be to change groups; fade out on the first group con- characters along the way. The God-Machine doesn’t act out of 
cluding The Hatching (probably some of them dying in the revenge, but if someone proves troublesome, the God-Machine 
Statue of Liberty), and fade in on the members of Operation: isn’t above sending an angel to handle the problem. Players 
Bell Jar discussing what rumors they’ve heard about “that might even consider succession if they choose Fates for their 
weird shit on Liberty Island” as their helicopter flies them characters — one character might choose “killed in public” 
to their base of operations near West Nautical 36. Another as his Fate, and decide in advance that a bystander witnesses 
possibility (again, playing with the idea of shifting time and this death and cannot ignore it. She has to become involved.
causality) is that as the time reversals happen during The 
Hatching, the characters’ backgrounds shift slightly. They Sequence
begin The Hatching as police officers, federal agents, and so 
forth, but by the time they finish, they are and have always Wellington School for Gifted Children (p. 205)   
been soldiers. The 300 Block (p.197)  The Invisible Citadel  
Operation: Bell Jar  What Is It Good For (p. 219)  Proposition 279 (p. 223)  This Is Hell  

(p. 231)
This is probably the easiest transition. The characters 

finish their successful operation at West Nautical 36 (or, 
perhaps, fail miserably) and are deployed to Iran as a support Progression
team. If a player needs to make a new character, that new This track starts off with the characters educating gifted 
character should already be in Iran and can meet up with young people at the Wellington School. There, they become 
the incoming soldiers. From there, the characters find the aware of the God-Machine in a kind of peripheral way. In 
Flag of Elam and embark on their slip through time and the fact, the God-Machine doesn’t have to figure into Wellington 
history of war, but the Tale works as written. directly (since the main conflict stems from the fact that the God-
What Is It Good For  The Scarlet Plague Machine can’t influence the area), but by the end of the story, 

the characters should have a very real sense that something is out 
The Scarlet Plague is almost apocalyptic in scope. The there and that it does not have any respect at all for humanity. If 

characters might return from their tour of time to find that any characters meet their Fates during this story, players might 
the events of The Scarlet Plague are already underway, or you consider taking the roles of former students of Wellington. 
might take a few months — or even years — of downtime. If Sarah Andrews (p. 249) might make for an interesting choice. 
you do, ask the players to consider if their soldier characters 
have moved on to other professions. Once the events of the Wellington School for Gifted Children  
Plague start up, they should reassemble on their own once it  The 300 Block
becomes clear that this disease comes from the God-Machine It might actually be wise to have the characters design the 
— and by now, the characters have certainly seen enough to 300 block as part of the setting for the Wellington story, even 
know the God-Machine when they encounter it. if the school itself isn’t part of that setting. Then, once the 

Rage Against  affair at Wellington has been settled, the characters really start 
to notice the strangeness right there in their neighborhood. 

the God-Machine This story should really bring home what the God-Machine 
is willing to do in order to keep the wheels turning, and the 

The God-Machine is vast, unknowable, and possibly om- characters are all faced with an unpleasant choice, here — kill 
niscient. It has designs for the human race, some of which other people, or choose to stand up and fight. 
are decidedly unpleasant. And, perhaps worst of all, to the The 300 Block  The Invisible Citadel
God-Machine people are just one more tool in the box, one 
more spinning cog. In this chronicle, the characters get to The characters should find the footlocker that leads them 

fight back against the God-Machine and, perhaps, end its to the Citadel somewhere on the 300 block, at the end of 

influence on the human race. the story. Maybe they prevent a sacrifice and discover the 
footlocker in the would-be victim’s home — or maybe they 

Themes find it in the home of one of the landlords. Either way, the 
challenge for the Storyteller is presenting the information 

This track is very humanist. The characters here should in the footlocker as enough of a temptation that the charac-
see all of the power, all of the cosmic scope of the God- ters follow the lead. Bringing in a new character to replace 
Machine and respond, “No.” Every machine can be broken. someone who died or met her Fate during the 300 Block 
Any system is just one malfunction away from shutdown. might provide a good opportunity for this — maybe the new 
Human spirit, anger, persistence, and plain old stubbornness character is wealthy and has been chasing leads about the 
are themes here. Citadel all over the world. She might think the Citadel is 

a place for inspiration and enlightenment, but this should 
make the truth all the more horrifying. 

190 
Shards of the Divine-Building the God Machine Chronicle



The Invisible Citadel  Proposition 279 players might have ways to affect them. The goal is for every-

This is a hard transition. The best way to make it work thing to work in a nice, tight circle, but that only happens if 

is probably to connect the Citadel to whatever country is you know what is supposed to have happened. A good prac-

putting forth Prop 279, and to allow the characters to travel tice is to make future predictions as non-specific as possible, 

there via the Citadel. If they find information in the Citadel because that allows for greater ease of interpretation when 

that explains the nature of Prop 279 (even if it takes them events come to pass (look at Nostradamus’ predictions and 

the whole story to decipher it — meaning that not until the how liberally they are interpreted for inspiration). 

end of the story do they realize that the whole point is a 
widespread massacre, and that it has nothing to do with the Sequence
specific people being killed), then they should be well and Squares of the City (p. 203)  Missing Persons  
truly outraged. They can also see the Dalga in the Citadel 
spawn Mr. Nose, and then see him later acting as an adviser. (p. 210)  Do-Over (p. 199)  The Moon Window 
Strong motivations are essential for the characters; they won’t (p. 212)  A Journey Into Time (p. 228)
just go haring off across the world to fight evil dictatorships 
without a strong reason to do so. Progression
Proposition 279  This is Hell This track starts with Squares of the City, which is easily 

It is entirely appropriate for Proposition 279 to fail, for the most grounded and understandable of the included Tales. 
the God-Machine to suddenly lose a great deal of power, and The characters need to investigate buildings being edited out 
the Celebrants to choose that moment to begin their assault. of existence, so right away something is removing people and 
Likewise, if the God-Machine does manage to get Prop279 structures from this plane of reality. Squares of the City also 
through and the massacre happens, maybe that boost of establishes some out-and-out weird motifs (buildings moving 
power enables the God-Machine to begin the push for on hidden tracks like a giant slide puzzle?), which should set 
“Heaven.” Either way, the characters can be right there in the the stage for the even weirder stuff later. 
middle of it, and given what they have already accomplished, Squares of the City  Missing Persons
they are ideally positioned as humanity’s champions. They 

Where do the buildings go when they vanish? The charac-
can now fight the God-Machine in a meaningful way — but 

ters shouldn’t find out during the first story, but when they 
given what the God-Machine wants, should they? 

start hearing rumors of people vanishing, they might note 

Space & Time the similarity. They might also hear of something appearing, 
something connected to one of the buildings that they (and 

Many of the Tales deal with cosmic issues of time travel no one else) remember vanishing in Squares of the City. 
and causality, but this chronicle track makes a point of taking When they investigate these missing persons, they learn that 
the characters into strange vistas, showing them bizarre possi- the extradimensional space is dotted with buildings from 
bilities, and putting the power of time reversal in their hands. all over the world, some of which they remember seeing. 

Time travel is hard to use as a plot device or a narrative Apparently, their city wasn’t the only one with those tracks 
tool. It lends itself to over analysis, plot holes, and bad at- beneath the ground. 
tempts at understanding quantum theory. The best way to Missing Persons  Do-Over
approach it in a God-Machine chronicle is, perhaps, the “I 
told you so” method. Let the players change whatever they This is a difficult transition because getting the characters 
want, but find a way to make it all work seamlessly in the to interact with the “magical couch” in the diner requires 
end. Have someone opine that time is cyclical, make notice- them taking several logical leaps. But that’s where the magic 
able mention that “what has fallen may rise again,” and let of time travel comes in — one of the characters’ “future selves” 
the players have fun twisting their brains trying to grasp the can appear to the character and tell her about the diner and 
logic of it all. If you have players that hate time travel, use a the couch. Alternatively, the characters might be in the fac-
different track. tory, dealing with the Overseer, and see the diner slide out 

on tracks back into their world. In any event, once they realize 

Themes they can alter that past, it might be wise to have them keep 
track of what events they’ve altered, just so you can have them 

In addition to themes of causality, responsibility and pos- cross paths with the repercussions later.
sibility, this track allows players to experiment with motifs 
usually left to science fiction. Almost all of the Tales in this Do-Over  The Moon Window
track deal with weird science rather than (or in addition to) Sometime before this point in the chronicle, the charac-
supernatural horror, and that might provide an interesting ters should become aware of Marco Singe and his cult. In fact, 
change of pace for seasoned Chronicles of Darkness players. it might be interesting if he were the one to point them at the 

Make sure that someone takes good notes for this track. diner, or for them to run across him in the extradimensional 
If possible, you want to refer back to past events — because factory. Once they’ve concluded Do-Over, they hear about 

191 
Chronicle Tracks



the physical and temporal anomalies in whatever city you’d Sequence
like to use for the Tale. You can use “mysterious person from 
the future tells them what they do next” again, but that plot A Glimpse of Mesmerizing Complexity (p. 216)  
device only works as long as they players enjoy it. If you use Ghost Machine (p. 207)  Wake the Dead (p. 214) 
it clumsily or overdo it, you’ll get eyerolling at best and “no,  Sister City (p. 201)  Urban Wandering (p. 235)
fuck this guy, let’s go to Paris” at worst. If the players do leave 
the chronicle track, choose another Tale and nudge the story 
back toward The Moon Window when possible. In any event, Progression
The Moon Window works more or less as written. The troupe needs to establish a reason for the group to be 
The Moon Window  A Journey Into Time traveling together, and depending on the size of the group, 

that might be the hardest part. A Glimpse of Mesmerizing 
Searching the offices of NalCon should give the characters Complexity begins with an uptick in traffic accidents, so the 

ample opportunity to learn about Dr. Henry Girard and his initial group of characters might be investigating this phe-
work. You can have the characters see the online video, asking nomenon, traveling between accident sites but not nomadic 
them to travel back into time, but at this point in the track by nature. Once they have the chance to follow the strange 
it might be better if they find the video on a NalCon server devices into the Twilight factory and confront the gear work-
as part of The Moon Window, instead. You can still reveal, ers, they have learned beyond a doubt that the supernatural 
later, that Girard left it there for them to find because he knew is real, it’s out there on the roads, and it’s very strange. 
they’d be there, of course (the nice thing about time travel is 
that it doesn’t matter when the time machine works, so long A Glimpse of Mesmerizing Complexity   
as it works). The characters can go back in time, stop Girard, Ghost Machine
and then learn that they, in the future, hatched this plan with This transition might be the hard sell. The characters now 
Girard, beginning with their involvement in disrupting the need not just a reason to travel, but a reason to travel together, 
tracks in Squares of the City. investigating strange stories of ghosts possessing machines. If 

they started off the first Tale investigating the paranormal, 
Wanderers this might be just another assignment (as an aside: the crew 

of a reality show dedicated to hunting down the supernatural 
The road-trip chronicle is a lot of fun with the right group. 

might be superb cover for a group of monster hunters or 
Traveling across the world, meeting new, strange beings, 

God-Machine cultists). In any case, one of the characters 
learning about the supernatural, and otherwise experiencing 

might have a personal connection to one of the hauntings in 
the diversity the setting has to offer can be very rewarding 

New England and get the other characters to come with her. 
for a troupe. This track sends the characters on a trip, not 
just across the U.S., but into a different version of the U.S. Ghost Machine  Wake the Dead

Themes The hook for Wake the Dead involves one of the 
characters killing someone. You can run the Tale with the 

Travel isn’t safe. The spaces between the cities are isolated, wrongfully-dead person just being someone they know, but 
unfamiliar, and dangerous (the sourcebook Midnight Roads) it loses a lot of the impact. If you can manage to nudge the 
examines this in detail, and the opening fiction, “Road characters toward killing someone, it might be possible to 
Gospel,” has some very God-Machine-like elements to it). bring in a new character if one of the existing ones meets 
In a road-trip chronicle, the players should always feel like her Fate. Or, you might present the situation to a player 
outsiders. They are always in unfamiliar territory, looking in that you think would enjoy the roleplaying challenge — he’s 
on things they aren’t supposed to see. With regards to the killed someone that he shouldn’t have, has managed to 
God-Machine, that means the strange, barely hidden plots cover up the death, and now the dead aren’t staying dead. 
that it keeps hidden via geography. The characters get to be If possible, the ideal situation for the lead-in to Wake the 
explorers, visiting new places and overturning new rocks Dead would be for the death to happen during the first story 
with every Tale. (maybe the character gets mesmerized by the blip and runs 

The trick is to make every new location feel different. someone down), but for the full impact not to be realized 
Unless you’ve done a great deal of travel, capturing the feel until Wake the Dead.
of a new place quickly can be difficult. One way around that Wake the Dead  Sister City
is to use the players’ experiences. Set the stories in places they 
know about, and ask for familiar landmarks or restaurants. Between the end of Wake the Dead and the beginning of 
Do some reading online, not just about the history of the Sister City, you need to get the characters to Seattle, as Sister 
place, but its demographics, economic status, and cultural City is one of the few Tales with a specific location. Fortunately, 
identity. You don’t need a lot of depth or breadth here, just Seattle has a lot to offer, and Wake the Dead offers a nice 
enough details to make the place feel real. method for crossing the country from Ghost Machine’s New 

England. Sister City is less travel-focused, but the characters 
are now crossing between two versions of the same city. If 

192 
Shards of the Divine-Building the God Machine Chronicle



possible, have a few of the players make characters from Old even introduce it earlier, maybe allowing characters to city-
Seattle, and encourage them to think about how their char- walk between locales during the chronicle (if the characters 
acters might have progressed through an alternate version of can treat this ability casually, it will help to reinforce the 
the same chronicle track. At the end of the story, try to make tone of Wake the Dead — see the sidebar on p. 214). At this 
sure all of the characters are on the same side of the “barrier,” point, the characters aren’t just wandering the highways and 
but it doesn’t much matter which one. byways of the U.S.A. anymore. They’re walking on conceptual 

Sister City  Urban Wandering roads, traveling between not just cities, but the idea of cities. 
Unfortunately, they aren’t the only ones using the roads, and 

No matter how the characters resolve Sister City, the so their battle with the nightmare creatures, the climax of the 
phenomenon of Urban Wandering can appear. You might chronicle, is symbolic of the freedom to wander. 

193 
Chronicle Tracks






With slick, trembling fingers, Marisa 
pulled the last fish hook from her arm and got 

to her feet. Her TORMENTORS, creatures of 
both Heaven and Hell, had gone silent. 

Linda hadn’t fared so well during the fish-
hook and glass assault. “We’ve come so far.” 

She coughed, and blood blossomed on her 
lips. Some of the glass SHRAPNEL from the 

conflict had pierced through her stomach. 
“Door’s just there.” She was missing a finger 

on the hand that pointed to the door. 
“You picking Heaven or HELL?” 

Marissa choked on her words. “I want to 
know where I should aim when this is all 

over.” 
“Neither.” Linda shook her head, 

trembling with effort. “We’ve been played 
enough. WE’VE ALL BEEN TOYED WITH 

ENOUGH. It’s time for both sides to leave us 
alone.” She coughed again; she wouldn’t do it 

a third time.
Marisa knelt beside her, the blood and sweat 

on her face washed away by tears. “Okay. That’s 
a good choice. I get that choice.” She leaned in and 

kissed Linda, and heard her last breath whisper out. 
The dead woman’s fingers fell open and gave up THE 

KEY. Marisa took it, tears still streaking her face, and 
stood up. All around her, she could see the workings of God. 

She saw the cLOCKWORK PERFECTION of its order, the perfect 
cacophony if its control. She’d lost everything, everyone, as a 

result of this war, even Linda. 
“Open the door. Let us in.” A Celebrant, a tall, beautiful, skinless 

body, posed as if in the middle of orgasm. It shivered when it spoke and 
smelled like wet, thoughtless sex.

“Close the door, keep them away, and you’ll never feel this pain, or any pain again.” An 
Angel, that’s what they called themselves, stood to the other side of the door. It could kill 

a thousand men with its radiant light. It could use the order of its God to smother an 
entire culture in a matter of weeks. “Relent to the will of our God and know everlast-

ing light!”
“You’re a creature of FLESH AND FEELING. Of pleasure and joy! You were 

created to have the sort of freedom you will never have under their rule,” the 
celebrant moaned, writhing as it spoke. It sounded, for a moment, like the sigh 

Linda used to make when she came. Marisa’s stomach tightened. 
“What if I LOCK the door?” She shouted — she had to. The churning, 

metal noises of the God’s workings were ratcheting up to deafening levels.
“What?” The celebrant hissed.

The Angel’s voice rang clear, chiming like bells.“DON’T BE AB-
SURD, HUMAN. DO AS YOU ARE TOLD.” 

“It’s my choice! You both told me that! Tell me what happens 
if I lock the door!” 

Both entities recoiled. 
“You’ll never reach your true potential.” The Celebrant 

hissed.
“You’ll live without TRUE ILLUMINATION, forever 
in the darkness of chaos. A world without order!” 

Marisa shut her eyes to shut out their cries of 
protest and taunting, and stuck the key in the 
keyhole. When it clicked, the sound was heavy 

and satisfying, and the room went SILENT. 



 Hagiography:  
Tales of the  

God-Machine
This section contains 20 scenarios involving the God-Machine. These Tales 

are suitable for use as single-story play, or as building blocks in longer chronicles.
The chronicles are split by tier. Use local Tales to bring the mystery of the 

God-Machine to your back door. Introduce regional stories to drag your characters 
out of their comfort zones to see the bigger picture. Throw your characters into 
global stories that show more of the scope of the God-Machine’s influence. And 
finally, inflict cosmic adventures on them that threaten to change the world as 
they know it forever.

Each Tale is presented as though the chronicle begins with it. That is, although 
the chronicle tracks present a progression and a way for one Tale to segue into 
another, the Tales as presented here all assume that you will start with that par-
ticular Tale. For example, in the Time & Space chronicle track, the Squares of 
the City Tale moves into the Missing Persons Tale. But here, the Missing Persons 
Tale is presented as though you’ll start with it. This allows the Storyteller to put 
the Tales in any order she wishes in order to construct a personalized version of 
a God-Machine chronicle.

Each Tale follows this format: 
A short introduction you can use to pitch the chronicle to your players — think 

I have been helped of it as the tagline that would appear on the poster, if this Tale were a movie.
to see that beyond Infrastructure is your set. This is how things start as the chronicle gets off 

the clouds that were its feet and things begin to change. The section gives you a tight focus on what 
round about me, there you need to know at the beginning of your chronicle to get things moving. It 
was a living, guiding, also tells you what Infrastructure the God-Machine is using, and what general 
intelligent, beneficent type it falls into.

purpose—the elevation, Interchangeable Parts helps you instruct players on the sorts of characters they 
regeneration and should make. This section is meant to help tie characters to the world you’re creat-

redemption of the ing. This includes suggestions for character archetypes and things to steer clear of.
inhabitants of this Blueprints gives an idea of what happens if everything goes as the God-Machine 

earth. plans. When things go sideways thanks to the characters’ meddling, refer back 
to this section to get an idea of what the God-Machine and its agents are trying 

— John Murray Spear, to accomplish. 
inventor of the Linchpins give you a look at how the God-Machine manifests. The section 

electrically powered shows you where the God-Machine pokes through and shows its true nature. More 
Messiah importantly, this section covers the terrifying agents of the God-Machine, what 

they look like, and what they want. 
Methods gives you ideas for how the characters could interact with the stories 

on a mechanical level. This section includes several Skills the characters might 
use during the course of the stories, as well as two suggested Merits players may 
consider while creating their characters.

Escalation examines what happens next. Win or lose, this section looks at how 
you could take your chronicle past its planned arc and potentially into other bigger 
and more dramatic tiers. This section also provides a suggestion for a Tale that 
could follow the current one. Note that these suggestions don’t follow the chronicle 
tracks, they’re just different ways to approach the God-Machine Chronicle.

196 
Tales of the God machine



THE 300 BLOCK 
The block that holds the teaching hospital — the 300 Also, they all have a personal tie with the most recent 

block, as locals call it — isn’t ritzy, but it’s home. How long disappearance. As a part of character creation, the players 
have you lived here and never noticed that people just… should also build the person who has recently disappeared 
vanish? (for a good method for doing this, see Chapter Three). For 

good or for ill, the missing person is someone all the charac-

Infrastructure ters are invested in. That’s not to say all the characters know 
each other, but they all feel the effects of this one person 

In a large city, people find safe subcultures to cling to, going missing, and the sting (or satisfaction) of a police 
like a shared ethnicity, income level, or occupation. For the force that won’t help. They may be drawn to find out what 
families and friends of the 300 block, the tie is proximity. happened out of love, a sense of justice, or simply to make 
They share a city block, about a mile square. City planners sure this person doesn’t come back and ruin the good thing 
had set this block off as housing for the young student doctors they’ve got going now (or to assure they aren’t blamed for 
and nurses — as well as the lower-income hospital staff — of the disappearance).
a nearby teaching hospital. A number of lovely, turn of the 
century apartment buildings sit in the middle of the block. 
This creates a sort of town within a city. Locals get their Blueprints
morning caffeine fix in the independent coffee shop on one When the city founders planned out the 300 block, they 
corner. The couple in B4 runs the book store on the ground worked out a deal with a unique and highly-praised architect 
floor. Local inhabitants even have a bodega that handles most named Hans Hoffmann. He promised to work cheaply and 
of the basic grocery needs. efficiently, and assured them that the nearby hospital would 

Property owners still adhere to many of the regulations produce miracles. The block would experience no crime or 
put on the block at its founding and, as a result, the popula- signs of poverty, so long as the property owners served the 
tion is about 70 percent medical students and other hospital God-Machine. He arranged for a few coding regulations, a 
staff. The rest are largely retirees on fixed incomes and low- few allowances. Mostly, he needed a promise that whatever 
income families. Despite this, the buildings remain pristine. happened on the block would stay, more or less, on the block, 
The neighborhood is safe. The inhabitants are happy. That and that city officials as well as the police didn’t get involved. 
makes the disappearances that much stranger. So far, this agreement has been honored. 

Once every six months, someone goes missing on the Hoffmann went a step further. He spoke to the initial 
300 block. Sometimes it’s a local, sometimes folks simply landlords, once the buildings were built, and made them 
hear a rumor that the guy who operated the hot dog cart better promises yet. Riches. Comfort. Long life. Peaceful ten-
left town. Sometimes strangers to the neighborhood hang ants. Economic security. All he needed in return was blood.
flyers on telephone poles saying someone was last seen on Not theirs, of course. Rather, once every six months, 
the block. No bodies mean no crimes, according to the the landlords were expected to find someone in the area, 
local cops, overburdened as they are with more dangerous bring him to the boiler room under the shared city park, 
stretches of the city. and murder him. Worse still, they were expected to paint 

The Truth: The 300 block is an intricate form of defense the machinery there with as much of the victims’ blood as 
Infrastructure. As explained shortly, the disappearances on possible. The machines needed the blood to run. If they 
the block are due to regular human sacrifice. The death of a refused, the results would be horrific. 
human being releases a great deal of spiritual energy, and the They agreed, and the 300 block has been prosperous and 
God-Machine harvests that energy and stores it for later use. comfortable ever since. Of course, Hoffmann isn’t human 

— he is an angel in service to the God-Machine. While Hans 

Interchangeable Parts Hoffmann officially died of natural causes years ago (a fact 
the characters can verify if they wish, though if they take the 

The characters all live on the 300 block. If they are extraordinary step of digging him up they find his coffin 
doctors, they may have recently moved here as a part of a contains only rust and bloodstains), the angel is capable of 
residency. Maybe they moved in with an elderly relative to returning to defend the block.
take advantage of the rent control. Maybe they grew up with 
a struggling, but happy, family on the block. But whether 
new arrival or long-time inhabitant, all the characters must Linchpins
be familiar with, and take up residence on, the block. They Of course, the God-Machine can be seen in the peace and 
need to be invested in that way. tranquility falsely handed to the block. Children and students 

197 
The 300 Block



live orderly, ordinary lives. The elderly enjoy the ease of their Larceny: Whatever is going on, it’s going on in that boiler 
golden years. Even the landlords enjoy a satisfied kind of wealth room. No matter how locked up it is, you’re getting in there. 
without extravagance. Of course, the stress sometimes breaks Roll Dexterity + Larceny to unlock the door and see what’s 
through, and a sign of the God-Machine’s terrible cost can be waiting inside. 
seen. A local might run across her landlord sitting in the park in Socialize: Rumors go with parties like cheap beer and 
the middle of the night weeping. And everyone heard about the curious potluck offerings. You’ve arranged to get a bunch 
security guard who hung himself in a building basement after a of the people in your building to join you for a social. Roll 
disappearance. Some days you can’t leave your apartment with- Presence + Socialize to get everyone having enough of a good 
out seeing 50 “missing” flyers plastered all over a telephone pole. time that they don’t notice you’re pumping them for rumors 

The shared boiler room, though, is an open wound in about the block.
reality. The God-Machine, a pulsing, living, hissing, steaming Streetwise: As the characters debate what to do, to 
thing, exists openly in that blood-stained room. The boiler work with the God-Machine or resist it, you can’t help 
room is a Linchpin and the landlords go to great lengths to but think of all the really awful people out there. Crooked 
keep everyone out. politicians. Abusers. You bring to mind criminals who 

At the chronicle’s climax, with the characters confronting the work the system and never get caught. Roll Intelligence + 
landlords in the boiler room, they may also meet the Architect Streetwise to come up with a list of people who may actu-
(traits provided on p. 253). When confronted, it offers the ally “have it coming.” 
characters a choice: try and fight the God-Machine, ruin the Holistic Awareness (p. 44): Doctors can be an arrogant 
lives of hundreds of people, maybe thousands, or work with lot. If there’s unusual health and wellbeing in the patients 
the God-Machine. It’s just one murder every six months. And under their care, they aren’t likely to examine it too closely. 
the characters are free to choose the victim. How many violent Why look for problems where there are none? You’re some-
criminals, wife-beaters, rapists, drug addicts, and so on could what outside of that world, however, and the balance of health 
they remove from the city? Or, perhaps they have enemies that and illness is a delicate one. You know something isn’t right 
they can now dispose of easily and cleanly. The God-Machine here on the block. The balance is off, but you can’t quite put 
doesn’t leave evidence behind, after all. your finger on why. Yet.

As a point of interest, if the characters defeat the angel and Safe Place (p.54): It isn’t safe for you most other places, 
destroy the boiler room (caving in the street, for instance, or outside the block for sure. You spent a lot of time building 
just walling it up from the outside), the God-Machine doesn’t up your Safe Place to assure that those outside threats never 
seek reprisals and there are no consequences for the block come in, never get you in your sleep. What will you do to 
other than that the crime and unemployment rate normalize. protect that Safe Place when you realize what plays a big part 
The God-Machine is just using this area as a supply of surplus in what makes it so safe?
energy, and it would be inefficient to expend the energy to 
destroy it (especially if it can leave the Infrastructure intact Escalation
and get the sacrifices going again once the characters have 
died or moved on). The climax of the story, naturally, can be when the char-

acters are confronted by the Architect. His offer shouldn’t 

Methods be an easy choice, and making that choice should change 
the characters forever. 

Occult: You’re only now starting to realize the potential If the characters choose to serve the God-Machine, you 
occult nature of the filigree and architectural details all over can then follow up. How do the characters cope with their 
the block. It’s going to take some serious research to figure out newfound duty? How do they struggle with one another and 
what the architect was trying to do. Roll Intelligence + Occult themselves over the dark thing they must do for the greater 
to start discovering the chilling truth behind the symbolism. good? Can they cover up the truth well enough? How do 

Politics: A city’s zoning regulations and property laws are they choose who lives and who dies? If they remain in the 
always confusing and obscure. The cops claim they aren’t city and delve deeper into its occult secrets, they might wind 
legally allowed to investigate inside the buildings? Could it up discovering gateways to cities all over the world (Urban 
be true? You’ve gotten as far as the public records of city hall, Wandering, p. 235). 
roll Intelligence + Politics to see if you can make heads or If the characters opt to leave the city, do they stay together? 
tails of the restrictions. Do circumstances bring them back into one another’s com-

Brawl: You don’t know what you said that set the landlord pany for a new crisis of life and death? If one character does 
off, but she’s screaming and crying and swinging at you. Roll kill someone to feed to the God-Machine, maybe he gets it 
Stamina + Brawl to keep yourself from getting scratched up wrong and activates the events of Wake the Dead (p. 214).
until she calms down.

198 
Tales of the God machine



DO-OVER 
A mysterious room provides people who regret their past interview for a promising job or a one-night stand that ruined 

decisions a chance to try again — sometimes at a terrible cost. a loving marriage.

Infrastructure Blueprints
A dingy 24-hour diner in a US city or large town serves A person in this town, who has previously been to the 

decent food and is otherwise unexceptional, except for the diner and who carries serious regrets about a past decision, 
door next to the restrooms that most people can’t see. Those begins having a recurring dream. In the dream, she visits 
who casually notice the door and try it find it locked — unless the diner, speaks with someone about the regretted incident 
they have dreamed of the room or have previously entered it. and then leaves, and wakes up knowing her past could be 

The Truth: The diner itself is concealment Infrastructure, different.
guarding the room. The room is one of several such devices When the character next visits the diner, she sees a door 
that the God-Machine uses to rewrite time. This one just hap- next to the restrooms that she never noticed before, and feels 
pens to be accessible to normal people. It’s possible that this a desire to open this door. Inside is a couch with tattered 
room has simply slipped from the God-Machine’s attention, upholstery, large enough to sleep on. Upon seeing the couch, 
or it could be that every rewrite of time that happens using she becomes certain that taking a nap on this couch would 
this room has to happen in order for some other important make her feel better about the decision she made. As soon 
time-shift somewhere down the line. as the person lies down on this couch, she falls asleep and 

dreams about the incident. 

Interchangeable Parts This dream is exceptionally lucid and clear and the 
dreamer is convinced that her actions in this dream change 

The characters all have at least one serious regret about how the incident went. She is then free to act, with full access 
their past actions, such as a stupid remark that spoiled an to her memories of how events previously occurred. Whether 

199 
Do Over



for a missed job interview, an insult to someone in power, Once a dreamer’s Willpower has been reduced to 1, he 
an ill-considered move that resulted in prison time — the become dull, listless, and only interested in making further 
person gets a do-over. The one limitation is that dreamers edits. When someone’s Willpower falls to 0, he vanishes, 
don’t have much time in the past. If someone sleeps on and the world edits itself around his absence, so that no one 
the couch for seven hours, she spends only seven hours in remembers that he ever existed other than people who have 
the past, before and during the incident that she wishes to also used the room to alter the past. 
change. However, time that the person was asleep, too drunk Minor or even moderate damage to the couch or room 
to remember, or otherwise unconscious passes in an instant automatically repairs itself the next time someone enters the 
and doesn’t count. Dreamers only experience times when room. However, demolishing the couch or ripping down most 
they were conscious and able to make decisions. of the wallpaper and damaging the walls causes the room to 

In the dream, the character inhabits the body of her past cease to exist. For one minute, the room distorts, appearing 
self, with only the possessions and physical capabilities that to change shape and size rapidly and randomly. Anyone who 
she had at that time. However, the dreamer retains all later leaves during this time is fine. Anyone who remains inside 
memories, Abilities, Mental and Social Attributes, as well vanishes with the room and is never seen again. When the 
as any Merits not involving money, rank, or social connec- room vanishes, the door to it also vanishes.
tions. As soon as the character makes the desired change, she 
awakens with full memory of the dream. When she leaves Linchpins
the room and enters the hallway, she gains new memories 
of how her life has changed based on the changes she made The two Linchpins are the room and the other dreamers. The 
while dreaming. Everyone else remembers the new set of eight-by-ten-foot windowless room looks exactly like something 
events, and any physical changes are present in the world. that belongs in the 24-hour diner, a ratty old couch, a 1980s 
The dreamer alone remembers the previous version of reality, floor lamp, and a couple of beat up tables. The only entrance or 
what she changed, and why. exit is the door from the diner. Underneath the faded, stained, 

Some changes could be significant: retaining a job or and faintly lumpy gold and blue striped wallpaper, the wall is 
a marriage, not having a prison record. Other changes are covered with a connected series of metallic sigils.
minor: she made it to the interview, but didn’t get the job The couch looks large and surprisingly comfortable, with a 
— perhaps resulting in the realization that she needed to slightly tattered harvest gold fabric cover. Anyone who lifts up 
choose another career. the seat cushions sees struts and springs like those found in a sofa 

The problem is that changing your life can become ad- bed. However, anyone attempting to fold out the couch finds that 
dictive. Many people want to try this again, and they can do it doesn’t open up. Carefully examining the struts reveals that 
so. The only limitation is that if the room is in use, the door they connect to an unusual network of wires that go inside the 
stays locked. However, if the character waits, the other person base of the couch. Gaining access to the rest of the mechanism 
eventually walks out looking slightly dazed, as he adjusts to requires cutting or ripping off the fabric covering the couch’s 
his own new memories. base. Inside the base is a bizarre and nonsensical-looking array 

Anyone who uses this room begins remembering other of carved bits of quartz, human finger bones wrapped in copper 
incidents where he made serious mistakes, and experiences a wire, and the complete skeleton of a crow wired together with 
compulsion to change those as well. A Resolve + Composure silver wire, connected to the rest of the mechanism.
roll is required to resist the temptation to return to the Once the characters have used the room a few times, 
room. After their first journey, characters can consciously and perhaps lost some Willpower, the God-Machine sends 
choose what past incident they wish to change. Dreamers the angel Jenn to watch the place. She takes the place of the 
must make a Resolve + Composure roll after every dream night waitress, and keeps a careful eye on the patrons. More 
journey to avoid using the room again. Players also subtract information on Jenn can be found on p. 259.  
one die from this roll for every dream journey to the past 
their characters have made. Methods

After their third trip back into the past, characters lose a Crafts: Characters who examine the couch and succeed 
dot of Willpower (which can be regained for one Experience). at an Intelligence + Crafts roll notice that struts in the couch 
Characters lose one additional dot of Willpower after every are not part of a fold-out bed. They are instead connected 
two additional dream journeys. Characters who have lost to strange devices that lead into the interior of the couch.
Willpower from dreaming of the past must succeed on a roll Investigation: The door into the room with the couch 
of Wits + Resolve – (the number of dots of Willpower already is in between the restroom and the manager’s office. A suc-
lost) every time they use the room. Failing this roll means that cessful Intelligence + Investigation roll allows someone to 
the dreamer is compelled to undo one of his significant social notice that only two feet of space exists between the wall of 
connections and reduce his visibility. He might have left his the bathroom and the wall of the manager’s office, making 
spouse years ago or refused a past promotion to a position the interior dimensions of the room impossible. 
of authority. Merits like Influence are lost first, followed by Larceny: A Wits + Larceny rolls allows a character to 
Allies, Contacts, Rank, and Retainer. discretely place a wireless camera in the hallway near the 

200 
Tales of the God machine



door to the room so that the character can identify who else strange events involving a strange room, changing their past, 
is using this room. and people vanishing.

Stealth: What do other people dream? Roll Composure Good Time Management (see p. 44): Once in the past, 
+ Stealth to hide in the room until someone else falls asleep. you only have so much time. Making quick use of the time 
If you stay there with them, and fall asleep as well, do you you have is essential.  
time travel together? True Friend (see p. 56): If you could relieve one mo-

Empathy: Characters who have used this room at least ment, would anyone believe you? Changing the past is risky 
once gain a sense of other people who have used this room. and potentially addictive, and it would be helpful to have 
Any time one dreamer sees another, he makes a reflexive someone who could share the experience — unless, of course, 
Intelligence + Empathy roll. Success means that the observer that friend starts using the room, too. 
can tell that this person has also used this room. The observer 
also gains a general, vague sense of what events have changed Escalation
in this dreamer’s life. If the observer personally knows the 
dreamer, he gains more information. Rooms like this begin appearing in several cities and 

Streetwise: Dreamers remember anyone who vanishes towns. Rumors about these rooms begin circulating on the 
because they used the room one too many times. As soon as internet, as do reports of people vanishing and no one else 
a dreamer asks a non-dreamer who no longer remembers the remembering them. Depending on how this progresses, im-
person ever existed, the dreamer simultaneously remembers portant bits of history like deaths might be altered, leading 
that the vanished person never existed in the reality they now to Wake the Dead (p. 214). 
inhabit. A Wits + Streetwise roll permits characters to learn A Journey Into Time (p. 228) is also a natural progression 
about and locate other people who have been talking about from this story.

SISTER CITY 
Something is wrong with your old familiar skyline. Is that The Truth: The God-Machine isn’t doing this on pur-

a building that wasn’t there before, a cab from a company pose, so the city’s dual nature isn’t really Infrastructure. 
that doesn’t exist, the smell of exotic food coming from a Rather, Old Seattle is logistical Infrastructure insofar as the 
library? Is it possible this isn’t even your city anymore? What God-Machine kept it going after the fire as a kind of “what 
do you do when the God-Machine glitches and you see what if” experiment, but the two cities were never meant to merge. 
you aren’t meant to see? All of the God-Machine’s attempts to keep the cities sepa-

rate and kill people who cross over, then, are elimination 

Infrastructure Infrastructure. 

In 1889 Seattle burned nearly to the ground. A new city 
was built over the ashes and tinder left behind. But the God- Interchangeable Parts
Machine wasn’t quite done with the old city, so it allowed The player characters should be split, some of them living 
the old city to continue to exist in the same space at the same in Seattle, and some living in Old Seattle. Up until now their 
time but with neither city aware of the other’s existence. lives have been separate. Now, they run into each other’s 

It’s an average day in Seattle. Maybe you’re in software lives as one city crashes into another and sharing one space 
design, or coffee, or organic foods. The drizzle doesn’t get becomes a problem. 
to you any more than the cold and you’re content knowing Characters in Seattle are exactly the sorts of people you’d 
you’re in one of the most forward thinking, progressive, and expect in a modern, liberal tech town. 
intelligent cities in the world when.... Characters in Old Seattle have a wilder lifestyle and 

It’s an average day in Old Seattle. Maybe you’re in ship- temperament. Given a hundred years to grow under the 
ping, gambling, or dock work. The occasional piracy doesn’t God-Machine’s careful machinations, the city holds on to its 
get to you any more than the crooked politicians because wild frontier feeling. Drunks and foreigners still occasionally 
you’re content knowing you’re in one of the most exciting, get kidnapped out of bars and sold off into slavery. Pirates 
adventurous, and free spirited cities in the world when.... and a pirate-based economy still exist, though the media and 

Something crosses over from Seattle to Old Seattle or vice politicians pretend they don’t. In general, the tech is lower, 
versa. A ship with modern technology and cannons pulls except when it comes to ships and sailing, and Old Seattle 
into the Seattle harbor, or some of the old-fashioned dock is known more for its liberal gambling laws and loopholes 
workers find a cell phone, technology their city has never than it is for coffee. 
seen before. And the characters are on hand to see the lifting All of the characters witness some event that crosses 
illusion between the two places. between the cities. It would save time if all of the characters 

201 
Sister City



saw it together, but if you have a bit more time on your hands characters in Old Seattle need to set it ablaze; doing this will 
and wish the chronicle to evolve more organically, have each end the merger and separate the cities again. Of course, doing 
character experience her own moment of wonder as some the opposite (burning Seattle but saving Old Seattle) might 
facet of the cities merge. Once the characters witness the complete the merger (see Escalation). 
“other” Seattle (from a given character’s perspective), they 
can cross between the cities at certain spots. This requires a Methods
Resolve + Occult roll. The crossover spots appear to be ran-
dom, but characters can learn to create them (see Methods). Computer: You don’t have technology anything like this 

phone you found. They seem to garner signal from sources 

Blueprints that don’t exist where you live. Yet it exists. It’s entirely di-
vergent, fulfilling needs your version of reality simply never 

The God-Machine did not plan for the two cities to run satisfied. And yet, it could be so useful now. Roll Intelligence 
into each other, and it’s not a part of the order. As a result, its + Computers and determine how much of this new tech you 
agents are out and about in the city with two goals in mind: can steal. 
Find out why the cities are merging, and destroy anyone who Occult: The veil between the cities has broken, though 
has seen evidence of the merger. its average inhabitant doesn’t know. You, however, can learn 

As the characters unravel the veil between the two worlds, to create crossover spots. This requires two characters, one 
they’ll soon find they’re on the list for termination. The story in each version of Seattle, focusing on crossing over. Roll 
can follow a few paths. The characters can race to find the Wits + Occult; if parties succeed the immediate area gains 
source of the slow crash and use it as leverage to get the God- the “Crossover Spot” Condition for 12 hours per success 
Machine and its servants off their backs. They can somehow (total from both rolls).
try to merge the cities, and in doing so loose the hold the Drive: Whatever it is that’s following you is made of 
God-Machine has on them. They may try to break the cities pigeon feathers, glass, and rage. Roll Dexterity + Drive to 
apart, removing the need for the agents of the God-Machine navigate your car through a network of new and old build-
to keep hunting, and hopefully leave them alone. ings and streets. 

Survival: This city seems so familiar, and yet the streets 

Linchpins are labeled wrong, and who would put buildings up on hills 
like this? Roll Intelligence + Survival to keep your sense of 

The God-Machine has many agents in both Seattle direction in the unfamiliar version of your city.
and Old Seattle. The majority are humans trapped within Intimidation: Old Seattle is more rough-and-tumble than 
the various institutions that make up a city’s bureaucracy. the place you’re from. If you don’t want to be subject to a 
Sometimes, what comes looking to keep the cities separate brutal hazing at the hands of the dockworkers, you need to 
is entirely inhuman. present a tough front. Roll Presence + Intimidation to get 

Take the Polis Men, for example. Despite potential confu- them to leave you alone.
sion, in the mundane world these agents do not appear as Streetwise: You know all the gang activity in town, or at 
cops. Cops draw too much attention. Rather, they appear least you’ve heard of most of it. These new guys? They’re be-
most often as street art, sidewalk chalk drawings, or statuary having strangely, to say the least. Roll Intelligence + Streetwise 
and other artistic installations. They’re made up of the city to put your finger on what’s odd about these gangsters. 
itself, of concrete and wrought iron. When the line between Trained Observer (p. 46): It takes especially keen eyes to 
the cities thins and they cross over into each other, the Polis see the subtle shifts between Old Seattle and new, and your 
Men rise from their watchful positions with the sound of character can spot them more easily than your average person. 
rending stone, and move with surprising speed and brutality. That’s part of why you could see through the lie, but only part.
They burned a city to the ground once for the God-Machine. Parkour (p. 48): In some places, navigating between build-
They’ll do it again if the population gets too contaminated ings, under the city, and even between cities is impossible 
with the truth. The Polis Men are angels. by “normal” standards of movement. That’s not a problem 

This Tale doesn’t include a single Linchpin, as the crux for you, though — you can reach the crossover spots that are 
of the conflict — the cities merging — isn’t something the literally over everyone else’s heads. 
God-Machine planned for. That said, if the characters want 
to find a way to reverse the merger, they need to find a nexus 
between the two cities. This point, in Old Seattle, is a store- Escalation
front that makes and repairs cabinetry and other wooden This story may end when the characters discover what is 
furniture. In Seattle, it is in a burnt-out basement in the causing the cities to crash in on each other and may ultimately 
Seattle Underground (a honeycomb of basements and tun- be separated on one side or the other as a result. Or, they 
nels from pre-fire Seattle, built over in the ensuing decades). might choose to complete the merger, in which case Seattle 

The nexus point appears as a pot of boiling glue (this is becomes a strange mix of old and new. How this plays out 
what started the Great Fire; the pot boiled over and ignited). for your chronicle is up to you — maybe the world shifts so 
The characters in Seattle need to put the fire out, while the that any changes that have been made have always been the 

202 
Tales of the God machine



case, leading into other magical realism-inspired Tales like Perhaps they take their show on the road, seeking out 
Wake the Dead (p. 214). Or maybe the characters become other twin cities all over the world to plunder them for 
unstuck from time, leading to Tales like A Journey Into Time adventure, or else stop catastrophic collisions from Rome 
(p. 228) or Do-Over (p. 226). to Dubai. This could naturally lead into Urban Wandering 

Or, maybe they can only stabilize things, and instead of (p. 235). If the God-Machine decides that these characters 
a chase, their relationship with the Polis Men becomes more are troublemakers, though, it might lead them into such 
like a series of heists as the characters live in both cities, slip- dangerous Tales as Proposition 279 (p. 223) or What Is It 
ping from one side to the other for their own benefit and to Good For (p. 233).
the frustration of the God-Machine and its agents. 

THE SQUARES  
OF THE CITY 

Starting one night at midnight, a series of buildings all The Truth: The tracks that allow the city blocks to move 
across the city begins to move in impossible ways for a short (described below) are logistical Infrastructure. The streets over 
period of time. At the end of this movement, the last building them, and the general culture of the area that keeps most 
to move vanishes. Only a few people notice these movements people off the streets late at night, are a longstanding form 
or the fact that later buildings are in different locations and of concealment Infrastructure. Editing the buildings out of 
some have vanished. existence, of course, is elimination Infrastructure. 

Infrastructure Interchangeable Parts
This tale takes place in a medium-sized or large city located The characters in this tale should all be somewhat outside 

anywhere in the world. Every night a dozen or more buildings of the normal ebb and flow of existence in this city. One 
in a single neighborhood of the city move and rearrange them- may be a new arrival who is looking for work or taking time 
selves. This movement begins at midnight, but every night off to write a novel. Another could be a temp worker who 
it begins one minute later, beginning at12:01 the next night works a wide variety of jobs in different locations and has few 
and at 12:05 five nights later. Although it looks impossible, lasting connections, and a third might be homeless. All that 
each building moves as a separate unit, while the streets and is necessary is that these people not have stable jobs and be 
sidewalks curve and bend to keep up. The buildings move on inclined to occasionally stay up past midnight.
pairs of parallel sliding tracks that open up in the fabric of the 
streets and they travel at the speed of a fast walk. Anyone who Blueprints
is outside when this happens can see what is happening quite 
clearly, and also notices that almost no one within around Every night, another building vanishes, and most of these 
half a mile of the affected area is outside while the buildings buildings are inhabited. No one remembers the vanished people 
move or for the five minutes before or after. except for the few people who have been unable to get inside at 

This movement is never simply linear. It looks like move- midnight and some people with serious mental illnesses. All of 
ments of a complex two-dimensional puzzle, where one build- these people remember that both an office building and a large 
ing moves south three blocks, then another near it moves west apartment building have vanished, along with several smaller build-
two blocks, allowing a third building to move north for three ings. Several hundred people have already been edited out of reality. 
blocks, taking the first building’s place. This movement takes The people who can see and hear the buildings move grow 
approximately 10 minutes to complete and at the end of it, increasingly out of sync with everyone around them because 
the building the makes the last move vanishes. This building they remember a growing number of people, businesses, 
and anyone inside of it are edited out of reality. Numbers in restaurants, and shops that no one else does. Sometimes, the 
telephone books and cell phone contact lists vanish, business first clue a person has to the fact that a particular building 
licenses and records disappear, people’s medical, bank, and has vanished is that they mention a previously well-known 
tax records all vanish. No one remembers that anything is shop or restaurant and everyone around them looks at 
different, except that a few people who had a loved one van- them strangely. These comments cause everyone to look at 
ish may be inexplicably sad and lonely for several weeks. The the characters oddly and to be increasingly distant. If the 
only people who notice that a building and the people in it characters are unable to prevent the building from moving, 
have vanished are the people who see the buildings moving. after several weeks they find that most of their close friends 

have become somewhat distant acquaintances. 

203 
The Squares of the City



Linchpins Methods
The characters all find themselves outside one night Crafts: Characters examining the tracks the buildings 

when the buildings begin to move. Everyone in the city feels move on who succeed at a Wits + Crafts roll notice that these 
a strong unconscious compulsion to get indoors a few minutes tracks might remain visible in tunnels underneath the city. 
before the buildings move, but occasionally someone locks An Intelligence + Crafts roll helps characters understand 
herself out of her home, drops her keys, or gets lost driving how to permanently disable these tracks. 
back from the store. Each character feels an urgent desire to Investigation: Every night, the buildings in a different part 
get home (or to the shop, office, or other building they were of the city move. However, all of these movements occur in 
planning to be in around midnight) as rapidly as possible, a complex but comprehensible pattern. After observing the 
but for some reason fails to get there in time. movements for at least three nights, characters can make an 

While they are outside, each of the characters hears the Intelligence + Investigation roll at -2 to determine what the 
strange rumblings as the buildings begin moving. Then, the next neighborhood to move will be. A second successful roll 
next day the business that a temp worker was working in or the reveals which building will vanish. An exceptional success 
shop where the homeless woman was regularly given free food on either roll reveals the pattern, allows the character to 
has vanished, along with the entire building it was in. No one completely understand the pattern of the buildings moving, 
else notices, and in fact, online maps and the records of the and predict which buildings will move and vanish days or 
temp agency clearly show that the business and the building weeks in the future.
never existed, but the characters remember it. The next night, Drive: Characters who begin driving as soon as they hear 
characters who live in the same part of town look out their the rumble of the buildings starting to move can drive to this 
windows and see buildings in their neighborhood moving. area before the buildings cease moving by making a successful 

If at least three people stand and watch the last building Wits + Drive roll.
move, it does not vanish, it simply moves to its final loca- Survival: Character walking through underground tun-
tion and stops. However, all of these people must be able to nels can make a Wits + Survival roll to find the area beneath 
clearly see the building and can be no more than 100 yards any particular building or series of buildings
away from it. Also, while that building does not vanish, the Persuasion: A Manipulation + Persuasion roll allows char-
next night buildings in a different part of the city move, and acters to convince the inhabitants of a building that will soon 
another building vanishes. It’s possible to keep buildings from disappear to evacuate from the building. Characters must 
vanishing in this fashion, but doing so requires a nightly vigil convince people to leave before the building begins to move. 
at the location where the last building moves. Once a building begins moving, no one can get in or out.

There is another way to stop the buildings from moving, Subterfuge: Characters can use Presence + Subterfuge to 
which requires the characters to seek answers beneath the successfully impersonate emergency services personnel and 
city. Like most other cities, this city has storm sewers, access convince residents of a building to evacuate.
corridors, and other tunnels underneath the streets. Anyone Demolisher (see p. 47): Characters with a knack for 
who gains access to these tunnels and has watched the build- tearing things apart have an easy time disabling the rails the 
ings move can see that the tracks that the buildings move on buildings move on.
are clearly visible in the ceilings of these tunnels, even when Omen Sensitivity (see p.58): When they see a building 
the buildings are not moving. that will vanish that night, anyone who gets hints or visions 

On the surface, these tracks vanish as flanges of asphalt of the future makes a reflexive Wits + Occult roll to notice 
rise up to cover them. However, the tracks remain under- that this building is the one that will disappear.
ground, hidden from sight. If someone cuts, welds, or oth-
erwise disables and disrupts these tracks sufficiently, they Escalation
can be disabled permanently. Cutting one of these tracks, or 
welding a metal bar across them, causes lurching and grinding If the characters manage to sever the rails and dodge the 
sounds as some buildings move while some of the buildings attentions of Officer Strait, they’ve saved the city from losing 
cannot move at all. More extensive damage slows the process buildings and people — at least for the time being. The God-
so that it now requires two nights for buildings to move into Machine might decide to try to rebuild this Infrastructure, 
the correct configuration for a building to vanish. Disabling but it will take time and effort, and if the characters want to 
these rails at points all across the city causes buildings to cease be vigilant they can stay in the area and try to stop it. 
moving and ends the threat of buildings vanishing. Of course, the God-Machine might decide to take a differ-

If the characters attack the rails or otherwise attempt to ent approach, and shift the characters to whatever alternate 
stop the process, they receive a visit the next day from Officer place the buildings went. This could lead to Sister City (p. 
Strait. Officer Strait is an angel taking the form of a traffic 201) or Missing Persons (p. 210).
cop. He cannot leave the streets, but he attempts to stop the 
characters from severing the rails or otherwise altering the 
Squares of the City.

204 
Tales of the God machine



WELLINGTON SCHOOL 
FOR GIFTED CHILDREN 

The children of Wellington School are special, brilliant, real-world experience.” What they mean is, “if we can sneak 
and strange. Are they the cause or the reason for the strange you through a background check and you can remotely justify 
and sometimes deadly occurrences that happen around the your experience, you’re hired.”
school? You, the faculty, are about to find out. Wellington always focused on future careers as well as 

higher learning, so they have a functioning auto-shop pro-

Infrastructure gram and metal works. Retired cops may find themselves 
asked to teach Criminal Justice to high school students at 

When the public school system in this medium sized a college level. To keep the children enthusiastic and chal-
American city “failed,” many of the schools were bought out lenged, maybe they’ve arranged for a guest instructor this 
by private companies. This included Wellington, a special semester in anthropology, world religions, paranormal stud-
school that handles children who are both troubled and bril- ies, or other esoteric subjects.
liant. The sorts of kids who, if sent to an average school, get It’s perfectly reasonable for one or all of the characters 
so bored they cause trouble. In the privatization, Edu Tech to play some of the troubled teens from the school, students 
Corp fired the entire staff, disposed of the old computer who live, sleep, and eat inside the strange walls.
systems, and hired a whole new faculty and administration. 
They called it “restructuring.” The fired teachers called it 
“union busting.” Blueprints

It got weird for a while. The papers reported some of All children are special, of course, but these children are 
the old staff wouldn’t give up their jobs. They locked them- more special than most. For whatever trick of circumstance or 
selves in the building chanting crazed profanity, and had to twistedly-inspired architecture, the God-Machine cannot op-
be removed by force. The papers never said what they were erate within the walls of Wellington. As a result, the children 
chanting, or told their side of the story. No word of trial or raised within its walls never learn to ignore the truth, and 
resolution, they just vanished. the supernatural remains an open book to them all through 

The staff has been told to ignore the gossip, to assume adult life. In game terms, all of the students at the school have 
the kids will make up stories. They’re “troubled” after all, the God-Machine version of the Unseen Sense Merit (see p. 
and will do anything for attention, positive or negative. 60), and, if the Storyteller wants to make the supernatural a 
Strange behavior, including gossip, should be reported to the bit more overt, might be more prone to manifesting psychic 
Administer of Public Trust, (a replacement for the plump, powers such as Telekinesis or Telepathy. 
good-natured principal). School policy with regards to the The God-Machine wants to remove this liability. Of 
students is very clear. Assure them everything is fine. Nothing course, a group of children being wiped out in almost any 
has changed. They’re safe. instance in the U.S. can be more of a shock to the system 

In Truth: As will become apparent, the Wellington than the God-Machine is prepared for, and besides, the God-
School is not part of God-Machine Infrastructure. In fact, Machine isn’t entirely certain what’s happening and why 
the God-Machine has no power and no visibility on school (since it can’t see inside the school grounds at all). Therefore, 
grounds. As such, the players’ characters in this Tale are the it’s taken a more subtle approach. The characters’ mission is 
Infrastructure, specifically elimination. They don’t realize this to undo whatever glamour hovers over the place, whatever 
(at least not at first), but as the Tale progresses they should makes the place unique. The God-Machine’s hope is that 
come to understand their function. any liability from the place (that is, people that possess the 

capacity to see it) can be disposed of or used at its leisure 

Interchangeable Parts once the blind spot is corrected. 
If the characters don’t deliver the God-Machine the secrets 

The players take on the roles of staff, teachers, advisers, it’s looking for, (and they likely won’t) it starts attacking the 
coaches, and possibly even janitors or staff as a part of Edu school and the student body. It isn’t trying to destroy the 
Tech’s takeover of Wellington. That may sound like a limiting place (since it doesn’t know what effect that might have), 
selection of character types, but it doesn’t have to be. Edu but to nudge the characters into finding out what’s so spe-
Tech isn’t interested in paying for the best teachers money cial about Wellington. The God-Machine doesn’t really care 
can hire. Rather, they’re looking to cut corners wherever about “why” in the end, it just wants this pocket outside its 
possible. They’re out for profit, so they hire anyone who influence to be controlled or destroyed. 
can handle the basics of teaching. They call it a “focus on 

205 
Wellington School for Gifted Children



Linchpins disturbance, but that isn’t what’s going on. Michael, a stu-
dent, is horrified by something he’s seen, but he’s not willing 

The characters work at the school, but they answer to Edu to talk to you or anyone. There’s got to be a way to get through 
Tech. Edu Tech is a national corporation that swoops into to him. Roll Wits + Empathy to find a way to build trust.
bankrupt school districts, takes federal money, and gets the Subterfuge: The meeting with Edu Tech’s HR director 
schools running again. They do it by cutting corners and hir- went well enough, but why did she insist on a lawyer being 
ing unqualified staff, but the test scores look good, so they’re there? Roll Wits + Subterfuge to get a sense of the relation-
staying profitable. The local branch of Edu Tech, though, ship between them. 
has been brought under the God-Machine’s influence, as Eye for the Strange, (p. 44): Maybe one of the characters 
mentioned. The Linchpin is their legal staff, a collection of is a student, or a former student. Whatever the reasons, this 
three seemingly-human figures. The characters might notice character is also resistant to the lies and illusions of the God-
that these lawyers’ breath seems smoky — it’s not quite as Machine. She’ll sense something wrong, something off, and 
opaque as smoke, but their breath has a woody, burnt, and help open the door for the other characters. 
not-unpleasant odor. Hobbyist Clique, (p. 51): Schools are great places for 

The God-Machine has also sent an angel to receive reports minds to meet. An afterschool club that’s reading horror 
from the characters. The angel makes deliveries of school sup- comics to keep off the streets is a step and a hop away from 
plies and Edu Tech-approved texts and tests once a week. Its a team of occult researchers at hand. All these kids need is 
name (as far as human beings are concerned) is Emil Rubio. a little nudge. 

To spur the characters into looking into the occult nature 
of the school, Rubio might find it necessary to help things Escalation
along. His attacks on the school itself and its student body 
should start out mundane, or at least dismissible. A tragic The characters have moved from simply investigating the 
death, apparently by accident, is easy to ignore. Maybe some nature of Wellington to full on protecting the students. They 
of the kids are whispering about ghosts, but the characters see may live out their days protecting and training the students 
no signs at first. After their first glimpse, maybe they think for war, they may be destroyed by the God-Machine, but in 
they’re dealing with ghosts and spirits. But the ghosts seem many ways, there is no escape from Wellington for the faculty 
to be made of smoke (and carry the same odor as the lawyers’ once they’ve discovered its secrets. Nowhere else is safe. 
breath), and the “haunting” only seems to become intense on This raises the question: What is so special about 
days when Rubio makes deliveries. The Storyteller’s goal here Wellington that makes it invisible to the God-Machine? The 
is to start the players down a path thinking they’re just deal- answer to that question varies based on what the Storyteller’s 
ing with traditional Chronicles of Darkness strangeness, only plans are for the chronicle. Here are three suggestions:
to find that all the strangeness is tied to the God-Machine. The architect of Wellington was a devotee of Marco Singe, 

and built the school as an exaltation to the God-Machine. 

Methods He got it wrong, though, as the characters can discover when 
they find his notes hidden in a compartment in the wall. If 

Academics: The investigative reporter planted too many they correct his mistake and grant the God-Machine more 
questions in your mind. Could it be true that the teaching power here, what reward might the characters receive? From 
methods you’ve been handed are harming these children? Is here, consider running The Moon Window (p. 212) or The 
the pedagogy all wrong? Why would they need to be brain- Invisible Citadel (p. 219). 
washed instead of educated? Roll Intelligence + Academics Or, maybe Sarah Andrews (see p. 249) is responsible for 
to find out more. the God-Machine’s blindness. For whatever reason, she emits 

Crafts: You and three children are trapped, cornered by a a psychic frequency that acts like static, and at Wellington, 
creature with mirrored eyes and smoky, harsh breath. Looking it become especially powerful. The God-Machine, of course, 
around, you realize you’re in the metal shop. Roll Intelligence might respond to this by sending agents to kill Sarah — or 
+ Crafts to build a trap to stop the specter. to capture her for further study. The characters might have 

Larceny: The truth has been scrubbed from the records to grab her and run, or live with exposing her to the God-
at school. Whatever actually happened here — is happening Machine. From here: Missing Persons (if Sarah disappears 
here — isn’t within Wellington. It looks like you’re going to into a portal; p. 210) or Do-Over (if they search for a way to 
have to break into Edu Tech headquarters. Roll Dexterity + correct what happened to her; p. 199). 
Larceny to start your foray into B&E. For a more cosmic possibility, maybe this isn’t the only 

Weaponry: Covered in soot and blood, you stand back blind spot that the God-Machine is experiencing. All over 
from the ruins of the playground, your eyes turning to count the world, it is losing its influence and its power. Is this a 
the teens. Still seven. Next time you won’t be so lucky. Next good thing? Is it withdrawing from a doomed world? Will 
time, they’re going to need to know how to defend them- it grind the Earth into dust trying to correct the problem? 
selves. Roll Presence + Weaponry to start training. From here, consider: This is Hell (p. 231) or Sister City (if it 

Empathy: They told you these kids were “troubled,” tries to revert to a backup copy; p. 201).  
which usually means some kind of emotional or development 

206 
Tales of the God machine



GHOST MACHINE 
The small towns of New England have a problem. 

Something is causing their machines to break down. Blueprints
Stoplights and cellphones losing functionality complicate The God-Machine is running an experiment on these 
little villages like this. But when boat engines start bleeding towns. As mentioned above, its reasons for the experi-
and gears scream, it’ll be up to you to fight the ghosts in the ment — what hypothesis it wishes to test or plan it wishes to 
machines. advance — aren’t immediately important. One possibility is 

that it prefers to have ghosts haunt physical, easily-portable 
Infrastructure machines over them being anchored to people or places, and 

it wants to see if this approach makes hauntings more or less 
Along small coastal towns and riverside villages in the chaotic. Another option is that the God-Machine just needs 

New England states, the God-Machine has begun an experi- the unquiet dead of these towns out of the way to make room 
ment. It’s haunting the machinery human beings use every for something else (perhaps a region-wide Infrastructure). As 
day. Why? Is it part of a plan to test our dependence on it? Storyteller, don’t make this decision unless you have to — the 
Maybe to see how weak we’d be in the face of a worldwide characters probably won’t ever discover that truth anyway 
cataclysm? It could be those things, or some plan impossible (unless you escalate the chronicle to the global or cosmic 
to parse with a human mind, but it is an experiment and level, but by that time the characters should have enough of 
for now, it’s being performed on a small scale. All of these an understanding of the scale of the God-Machine that “we’ll 
low-population towns are near the coast. That may be a part never really understand” becomes a viable answer). 
of the plan, but it isn’t a direct explanation of anything. The The God-Machine is churning up the souls of the dead 
water is part of a pattern but not a solution. from wherever they might rest, and stuffing them into any-

Don’t get caught up in the “why” though, because the thing with a circuit board or moving parts. Many locals have 
“what” is the issue for your characters. With their machinery their traditions and their superstitions, but this is different. 
being overtaken by ghosts, it’ll be a long struggle before the The traditions of old sailors and other folk superstitions just 
characters can even consider digging at the root of the prob- aren’t meant for this technological terror. As a result, without 
lem. Right now, a few people scattered through these towns outside agents (like the characters), the locals won’t make the 
are trying to take old folk remedies said to protect them from leaps of research and study necessary to resist. The machine 
ghosts and apply them to the issue. The characters may get ghosts of the God-Machine terrorize the locals until it’s sat-
directly involved with the resistance, may spearhead it, or may isfied with the results — but that might leave the Northeast 
try to avoid it while seeking other solutions. dotted with tiny ghost towns too dangerous to reclaim.

The Truth: The Infrastructure at work here is logistical, 
overseen by the angel called Black Nathaniel. Black Nathaniel 
takes a more active role than many of the God-Machine’s Linchpins
agents, calling up spirits of the dead and binding them to The spirits of the dead might reside in computers, 
electronic and mechanical devices. watches, millstones, and even overhead lighting. All of the 

things we understand as complex machines are, in essence, 
Interchangeable Parts an extension of the massive cosmic entity that is the God-

Machine. And so a fisherman might turn on his television to 
Characters that are able to travel a bit are ideal for this find the signal dead and faces of those he left behind in the 

chronicle. While the characters won’t need to travel cross war screaming profanity at him. A husband that let his wife 
country, they need to be able to cross state lines to hit all die rather than keep her on a ventilator may face her final 
the locations where the machines are breaking down. Ties revenge when he cleans out the garbage disposal one night. 
to those small communities are also a plus, as they can be Reapers and Sowers carry the ghosts, under the direction 
insular. Professional fisherman, characters with family ties of Black Nathaniel (p.254). These angels are hard to catch, 
through the region, even a Highway Patrol or Coast Guard and the average person never sees the Reapers and Sowers, 
officer would have a reason to move around and yet belong only the ghosts they’ve bound. They work in pairs, of course, 
in a way with various communities. the Reaper a tall, gaunt, mechanical man that smells like rust 

Of course, being outsiders trying to solve the problem and motor oil carrying an old-fashioned lantern that glows an 
may itself be an angle of approach when Storytelling this ugly green. That’s where he keeps the souls he’s reaped from 
chronicle. Getting in and getting close to the people affected elsewhere. The Sower is a squat, womanish horror made of 
by the God-Machine’s experiment. moist leather patches from her duties sewing souls into the 

workings of the God-Machine.

207 
Ghost Machine



Methods may be vital in both discovering the nature of the hauntings 
as well as helping to take back the technology stolen in the 

Academics: Many of the graves of a small local graveyard God-Machine’s experiment.
have been dug up. Why? That’s going to be hard to discern. Barfly (p. 50): You might not need an invitation to get 
First, you’re going to have to figure out who was dug up in into a dockworkers’ pub, but you’ll be treated to the coldest 
order to figure out why. Roll Intelligence + Academics to sort of receptions unless you can get the locals to warm to you. 
through old church records and figure out whose remains 
have been disturbed. Escalation

Crafts: It’s possible that you can spiritproof some ma-
chines, but the process is delicate and complicated. It will It’s possible that if the characters organize well enough, 
take a skilled hand. Roll Dexterity + Crafts to experiment they might prove the experiment is more trouble than it’s 
with ghostproofing your computer without destroying its worth, causing the God-Machine to focus its attentions to 
delicate components. other matters. But what if a scattered handful of techno-

Drive: The boat has a mind of its own, and it’s taking you exorcists aren’t actually enough to deter the God-Machine? 
out to sea. That might not be an insurmountable problem, What if the God-Machine’s experiment is successful, and it 
but those clouds look threatening. Roll Strength + Drive to decides to spread it? Or what if this experiment is the first 
wrestle the controls away from the ghost controlling the boat stage in launching a more destructive (The Scarlet Plague, 
enough to aim the craft back toward land. p. 225) or invasive (A Glimpse of Mesmerizing Complexity, 

Stealth: Black Nathaniel is out hunting for ghosts, and if p. 216) initiative?
he can’t find any, he’ll make some. Roll Dexterity + Stealth Imagine a world where people must fight to reclaim tech-
to sneak under the watchful eye of a murderous angel. nology from wrathful, tortured ghosts while trying to hide 

Animal Ken: All of the cats in town — actually, in all of from monstrous machine men wielding the ghost-infested 
the towns you’ve visited — are acting strange. Roll Wits + tech. Should the story go cosmic, a full-on end-of-the-world 
Animal Ken to figure out what the common cause is. scenario could position the last survivors of a nuclear ho-

Persuasion: If New England loves anything more than locaust against the God-Machine’s agents and its twisted 
a ghost story, it’s a town hall meeting. The crowd is getting ghost tech. The characters struggle to survive, rebuild, and 
restless and panicky. Roll Presence + Persuasion to calm the steal back fire from Prometheus, after a fashion, and ward 
locals into telling you their story before panic sets in. their tools against further possession. Left unchecked, this 

Encyclopedic Knowledge (Computer) (p. 44): With a scenario could go, by way of Missing Persons (p.210), straight 
focus on technology and the Computer Skill, your character into This Is Hell (p. 231). 

THE KEY 
Somewhere out there is the Key to the God-Machine. in this impossible crime, no one is going to be able to sweep 

Last Thursday he killed three people in three different cities it under the rug too easily. 
at the same moment. How do you catch a man with no way The killer has left notes, mocking messages detailing how 
to track him or prove his guilt? How do you stop a Key that he’ll kill again and when, but not where. As he says, “space is only 
can open a part of God? an issue for you. I can be anywhere I want, and I will be. How 

many of you have wives at home? Can you be in two places at 

Infrastructure once, like I can?” He also says he’ll be writing to the newspapers 
next. He plans to be, as he puts it, “the greatest cog the machine 

Three different police precincts are baffled. Local papers has ever known, the greatest killer the world has ever seen.” 
in three cities are pointing fingers and someone on a local The Truth: The Key is Wesley Cote (p. 250), a man who 
network affiliate is suggesting that the police are covering came unstuck from time just after his wife’s death. As a teenager, 
up an internal problem. How else can you explain three Cote received a visit from his future self (once he’d started kill-
murders, performed with an identical ritual, with blood and ing) and was informed of his destiny. He honed his ability to 
other evidence indicating one single suspect in three different sidestep time and space, and used it to kill, but only ever in the 
cities at the exact same time? future, from the perspective of his widowed self. Wesley has his 

Most of the departments, being territorial and embar- own theories about what he is and why he does what he does, 
rassed, want to push this whole thing aside as quickly as but the truth is that he is mobile elimination Infrastructure. 
possible. They want to treat it as three different crimes, find Occasionally an angel called Grief delivers a message to him, 
their own bad guys and wrap up the strangeness. However, and he kills a person on the say-so of the God-Machine. The 
because the media has heard so much, and are so interested rest of the time, he just kills at whim. 

208 
Tales of the God machine



Interchangeable Parts Blueprints
The characters might be a publicity stunt. The three He calls himself the Key, because he believes he has un-

departments decide to create a well-publicized task force locked part of God and has full access to that aspect. He can 
consisting of detectives from all three precincts working hear the workings of the God-Machine. Everywhere he goes, 
together and sharing resources. Throw in an overseeing FBI he hears the ratcheting pulse of the God-Machine’s plans and 
agent in case someone decides to take the case federal, and whirring beats of its machinations. The Key believes that he 
maybe an Internal Affairs mole (this looks a lot like cops are understands those plans, it’s all clear to him. If he weren’t 
behind the whole mess), and you have the setup for a tense a perfect part of a perfect system, how could he possibly do 
procedural drama. what he does?

Or, to take it in a different direction, the chronicle could Granted, he doesn’t exactly understand what it is he 
follow some news hounds as they look into the matter as does, or how he can shift in time and space the way he does. 
civilians. Maybe the cops are tied up in the God-Machine It doesn’t matter. What matters is that everyone knows he’s 
on a less metaphoric level, and the only way to stop the Key doing it. He knows he’ll be caught, eventually. He doesn’t 
and his killings is for these reporters to investigate on their plan to make it easy, but he does plan for it, and his capture 
own. Maybe the Key has picked them as his chroniclers and should be one for all of history to remember. He will keep 
a part of his delusion, and so they have to find and stop him upping the ante, keep pushing the boundaries of what he’s 
before he gets to them. capable of doing until he’s caught or dead. Because he thinks 

A third possibility is that the characters have already the God-Machine wants it that way. 
run across the God-Machine, and the Key is targeting them Cote is right, of course; the God-Machine does want it 
directly. This works best if one player is willing to sacrifice this way. The God-Machine created the Key using a kind of 
her character (perhaps in accordance with that character’s closed loop — Grief delivered the message to Cote (age 30), 
Fate) to start things off. which drove him to the edge of sanity, which pushed him to 

In any case, let the players choose which three cities are kill, which enabled Grief to teach him to shift in time, which 
involved. This Tale is regional in scope, meaning that, as allowed Cote to go back in time and train Cote (age 16) to 
written, the cities should be in the same general part of the stalk and kill, which made him unstable and thus able to hear 
world, but if you want to take it global and have the cities all Grief’s message at age 30… The sad tale of Wesley Cote is 
be on different continents, that’s just as effective. truly a chicken-and-egg scenario, and it’s enough to cause a 

breaking point (see p. 73) to any character that figures it out. 

209 
The Key



For its part, the God-Machine doesn’t care much about locks has something to do with the Key and what the chief 
Cote particularly. If the characters kill him, it can create actually knows. Roll Intelligence + Larceny to plan the best 
another Key for elimination Infrastructure purposes. Or, it time to get into those cabinets and have a look. 
can use a version of Cote from a different time period (if you Expression: A group of reporters has you cornered. Their 
think that wouldn’t annoy the players). questions are real stingers. They want answers and details 

you aren’t able to give them. If you blow them off, though, 

Linchpins it’ll look even worse. Roll Presence + Expression to tell them 
things they already know in a new way and convince them 

The God-Machine is largely a motivation and a means in they’ve gotten what they were after. 
this chronicle rather than a potential antagonist. The hor- Empathy: Cote’s brother-in-law was there the night his 
ror here, supernatural events aside, is really what one man sister died, and remembers Cote screaming about a “blue 
can do, how he can hold three cities hostage just by reveling room.” But to get him to relive that night, he’ll have to believe 
in his actions and acting as though the media should be you have his family’s best interests at heart. Roll Manipulation 
celebrating them. + Empathy to get him to talk (alternately, this might be re-

Signs of the God-Machine might be peppered throughout solved with the Social Maneuvering rules on p. 81). 
the stories as a method of setting mood; they are the trappings Mind of a Madman (p. 57): You’re the investigator every-
the Key is obsessed with, after all. He likes metal parts and one else worries about. The one with a dark cloud over your 
gears; the deaths may occur near large industrial machines or shoulder and an unpleasant knack for getting into the heads 
use them. Remind the players that blood smells like copper of psychopaths. You can start to understand what makes this 
and rust. Maybe the characters find three doodles on the walls guy tick, which means you may understand how to stop him. 
of the crime scenes, all drawn with the same silver marker, Mentor (p. 51): You had a professor in college who’s 
but when the doodles are held up next to each other they opened a lot of doors for you since, but what interests you 
make the shape of a key. now is her work in “quantum immortality.” Of course, her 

knowledge and your involvement puts her in the Key’s sights 
Methods — and maybe even on the God-Machine’s list for elimina-

Medicine: The coroner does amazing work, and her tion. Keep her alive while she helps you sort through what 

reports are always detailed and complete. Roll Intelligence is impossible and what is merely improbable. 

+ Medicine to suss out the details of her reports, and maybe 
pick up some vital clues for your investigation. Escalation

Politics: The old files you found have been heavily re- The Key is dead or in custody. Now what? Whether 
dacted, possibly on a federal level. You refuse to believe it’s from him, or from his rambling writings, the characters 
a dead end, though. Roll Intelligence + Politics to uncover a learn more and more about this “God-Machine” he was 
place where unaltered files might be held and, more impor- obsessed with. He talks about global conspiracies. He talks 
tantly, how to access them. about other “parts like him” operating, killing, and serving 

Firearms: It was bad luck that the only witness to the the God-Machine all over the country, maybe all over the 
latest crime is a bit of a recluse and a gun nut whose mental world. One of the parts is apparently planning to take down 
state was made quite fragile by what he saw that night. He a plane in the next month. How do the characters follow up? 
sees you as an outsider, maybe even someone tied to the This might lead into Do-Over (p. 199) if the characters try to 
Key. Roll Manipulation + Firearms to bring up enough gun match time travel with time travel, Wake the Dead (p. 214) 
lore from memory to gain his trust and get past his damage. if they kill the wrong guy, or Wellington School for Gifted 

Larceny: The cabinets in the Chief of Detective’s office Children (p. 205) if it turns out another Key is hiding where 
are locked. You suspect that part of the reason for all those the God-Machine can’t find her.

MISSING PERSONS 
Unusual numbers of people go missing over a large area. search of answers, eventually ending up in a small city at the 

People regularly report hearing these people calling for help geographical center of the disappearances. The characters 
but can’t find them. begin hearing reports of people (and occasionally pets) vanish-

ing, and others hearing them calling from seemingly-empty 

Infrastructure space. These reports occur across an area of several states. 
In one famous disappearance, a young man vanished 

The events begin in any city or town, but the characters from a car at the top of a Ferris wheel. For the rest of the 
must travel across one or more states or a similar area in evening, other patrons claim to have heard the man calling 

210 
Tales of the God machine



for help when their cars passed the point where he disap- The gateways are created and controlled via a tall win-
peared. Another case involved people in a house losing a dowless building located in the exact center of the spiral of 
dog and hearing it barking inside the house for several days gateways. Inside this building is a vast and complex machine. 
afterwards, but being unable to locate it. The characters can destroy this machine, or they could at-

The Truth: The God-Machine conceals its methods in tempt to adjust it so the overall gateways are significantly 
this story by hiding the mechanism creating the portals in smaller or higher off the ground. Both options would cause 
the weird “dimension” on the other side of said portals. This far fewer people to be trapped by them, but would not prevent 
could be considered concealment Infrastructure, but it’s really all vanishings.
a lack of Infrastructure. This is actually a problem; because 
the God-Machine didn’t make sure that the portals fit into Linchpins
our world, it’s interacting with the world in a disruptive way. 
This may have simply escaped the God-Machine’s attention, The most obvious manifestations of this phenomenon 
or it may be deliberate, which is a decision for the Storyteller are the invisible gateways that move across the region. Once 
based on her plans for this Tale. someone has seen someone vanish into a gateway, she auto-

matically gains the ability to see the gateways. At least one of 

Interchangeable Parts the characters should see someone vanish. 
The gateways appear as faintly glowing ovals that move 

Almost any characters could work with this adventure, through the air. These ovals move at a speed of between one 
but they need sufficient funds or a car that’s in good shape and six miles per hour. The further from the center the oval 
so they can travel across several hundred miles. At least one gateway is, the faster they move. 
character who has sufficient knowledge of mathematics to These ovals form a complex spiral pattern all centered on 
be able to understand the pattern of the oval gateways would a small city. This city is unusual in that its missing persons 
be very helpful. rate is significantly lower than anywhere in the surrounding 

area, because there are no oval gateways anywhere within this 

Blueprints city. At the exact center of the spiral is a large, windowless 
building 17 stories high. Although the building appears well 

People are vanishing because they wander into a series of cared for, it has no identifying marks other than a small sign 
more than a hundred gateways into another reality. These saying “Koval Corporation Rental Storage” above the door. 
gateways form a vast, rotating spiral covering several states. The locals ignore the building. 
Each gateway is an oval eight feet high and five feet wide. The building has expensive electronic locks but no other 
Bumping into the side of a gateway does nothing, but anyone security system. The first floor contains only unused offices, 
who stumbles through the gateway vanishes. Although the a stairway, and an elevator to the upper floors. Both require 
gateways are invisible to most people, sound travels through a key card to access. The other 16 floors contain a vast and 
them, so anyone near a gateway can hear people on the complex machine. The machine is a confusing mass of scaf-
other side. folding, interlocking gears, flashing lights, and sheets of 

The reality that lies on the other side of the oval gateways transparent, glowing glass. The machine is alien to humans, 
is exceptionally confusing. The sky and the landscape are but is obviously large, powerful, and exceptionally complex. 
almost indistinguishable, and to human eyes both appear as However, near the base are controls that appear far more 
abstract swirls of color. Perceptions of distance, shape, and comprehensible, as though they were built by and for humans. 
direction are drastically inaccurate, and the terrain is highly The Overseer, an angel sent to operate these controls, has 
uneven. Someone could take a single step away from a gateway full run of the place.
and find themselves as much as several hundred yards away Floating in the air in front of and three feet above these 
from the gateway. Attempting to walk towards an object or controls is an image of the spiral of gateways. This image 
person that seems close by and directly ahead could lead the is approximately seven feet across, and each gateway is 
character further away from it. around an inch across. The characters can figure out that 

The air in the realm on the other side of the gateways one of the controls affects the size of the oval gateways 
is breathable and time passes one tenth as fast in this other and another affects their height. Both can only be adjusted 
reality, but eventually anyone who remains here starves to within a limited range. The portal size can range from 
death. There is no food, water, or other life in this reality. one to five yards in diameter and the height from a few 
Near each gateway are least half a dozen people and a larger inches above ground level to 200 yards high. By making 
number of corpses. Some of these people save themselves by the oval gateways both as small as possible and as high as 
stumbling back through the gateway. However, none of these possible, the number of people who become lost can be 
people can see the gateways and only escape by chance. They greatly reduced.
reappear with only fragmentary and confusing memories of Another advantage the characters have is that they can see 
the reality they were in, and the experience drives a few of the gateways, and this allows them to more easily navigate the 
them insane. If the characters do nothing, people continue other-space behind the gateways. Being able to see the gateways 
to disappear and never return. gives characters traveling into this other-space the chance of 

211 
Missing Persons



finding their way out, but the distortions of space and distance Direction Sense (p. 44): Individuals with a good sense of 
still make this a challenging proposition. By far the safest direction add +2 to their rolls to navigate the reality on the 
method of navigating this space is for a character to go in tied other side of the gateways.
to a long rope, so that she can automatically find her way out. Clairvoyance (p. 57): People who occasionally see visions 

of distant events can automatically see the gateways and easily 

Methods locate people who have fallen through them.

Investigation: Plotting all of the missing persons cases in 
the region requires an extended Intelligence + Investigation Escalation
roll. Each roll requires a half hour of work, and eight successes The easiest method of escalation is if the characters de-
are required to plot all of the known disappearances on a map. stroy the machine rather than adjusting it. While damaging it 

Science: Gaining a basic understanding of the controls prompts swift retribution from its clockwork servants, a large 
of the device that operates the gates requires an Intelligence fertilizer bomb placed inside the first floor could easily destroy 
+ Science - 4 roll, as well as several hours of experimentation the machine in the building. A moment after this explosion, a 
and examination. pillar of blinding light arcs up into the sky and all of the oval 

Athletics: Distance from the ground isn’t quite uniform gateways vanish. The characters can conclude this scenario with 
between the two sides of the portal. Climbing through a little backlash (making it a good choice for a single-story God-
portal requires a Dexterity + Athletics roll. Failure on the Machine chronicle), although if you want to have the story take 
roll indicates that the character falls and suffers one point a tragic turn, maybe that explosion forces the God-Machine 
of bashing damage. to take a more direct and unpleasant hand in the fate of the 

Larceny: Characters who wish to break into the build- world (The Scarlet Plague, p. 225 or Proposition 279, p. 223).
ing must make a Dexterity + Larceny roll at a -2 penalty to If the characters do not manage to shut down the factory, 
get through the lock on the front door. Another Dexterity though, over the course of the next three weeks, physical 
+ Larceny at a -3 penalty roll is necessary to override the key laws begin to break down in subtle ways. Gravity varies by 
card lock on the elevator or the lock on the stairway. as much as 20% in different places and at different times. 

Persuasion or Subterfuge: A successful Manipulation Also, distances seem to contract and expand. Traffic accidents 
+ Persuasion or Manipulation + Subterfuge roll permits a and similar problems dramatically increase. Most people are 
character to convince a local reporter to give her access to his slightly confused, but do not panic, because they are unable 
database of stories about local missing persons. to fully understand what has happened. Only people who 

Empathy: A successful Presence + Empathy roll helps can see the gateways are actually aware of the magnitude of 
calm panicked people who have fallen through a gateway so the problems (these events might be used as a lead-in to a 
the character can lead them back to earth. cosmic-tier Tale such as Urban Wandering, p. 235).

THE MOON WINDOW 
The characters discover that entropy is increasing in a humanity might have pierced one of the greatest concealment 

growing region. In this area, machines break down faster than Infrastructures in history.
they should and people become sick more often. As the area 
expands, entropy increases within it, causing more and more Interchangeable Parts
serious problems. The characters must find the cause before 
large numbers of people die. One or (preferably) more of the characters should be 

people who are in a position to notice some of the anoma-

Infrastructure lies. Someone who works for the power company or for an 
IT firm that serves many clients in the affected area would 

This tale takes place within a large city. The location be ideal, as would a doctor or nurse working in a nearby 
doesn’t matter, but it needs to be a relatively prosperous city hospital, especially in the emergency room. At least one of 
of at least a million people. This city should also be located the characters should have either technical skills that can be 
relatively near several other large cities. used for breaking and entering or sufficient social skills to 

The Truth: As discussed in the Introduction, Marco talk his way past low-level security personnel. 
Singe’s cult and understanding of the God-Machine isn’t 
entirely (or even mostly) accurate. Yes, the lunar landing Blueprints
retrieved artifacts associated with the God-Machine, but the 
God-Machine didn’t put them on the moon for people to The true purpose of the Apollo lunar missions was to 
find. In bringing back objects from the Crypt of the Butterfly, retrieve various items from the Moon, most importantly the 

212 
Tales of the God machine



remains of the ancient creature in the so-called Crypt of the a lit cigarette or driving a car with its headlights on. Inside this 
Butterfly. However, the people who acquired this body have region, cigarettes have a tendency to smolder and electric lights 
not yet learned how to make use of the many powers it is sup- of all types are slightly dimmer. Both immediately brighten when 
posed to bestow upon anyone who possesses it. In an attempt they leave the area. The edges of this region are quite distinct, and 
to release its powers, these individuals have begun working by walking or driving half a yard, someone can see her cigarette 
with some of the smaller items from the crypt. One of these flare up or almost go out or her headlights visibly brighten or 
items is a rough and eroded sphere of red- and gray-banded dim. With a bit of work, the characters learn that the region is 
stone the size of a softball. In an attempt to release some of an equilateral triangle with the apex being the Barlowe Building, 
the power within it, an esoteric artist and self-proclaimed an office tower owned by the large NalCon corporation. 
magician placed the sphere in the center of a large, abstract, Anyone with an interest in public art or who researches the 
stained glass window. building learns that the stained glass window was installed just 

The CEO of the NalCon Corporation is part of the effort two months ago as part of plan to create public art on and around 
to work with the Crypt of the Butterfly. A few months ago, she the Barlowe Building in celebration of its purchase by the NalCon 
had this window placed as part of an artistic ornament near Corporation three months previously. The stained glass window 
the top of her local corporate headquarters, a 40-story office is circular and 11 feet in diameter. It is attached to the building by 
tower known as the Barlowe Building. While this building one 20-foot-long girder coming off of the roof and also by a second 
has not been affected by the emanations from this window, girder located 11 feet below the roof. In the early evening, sunlight 
its effects extend outwards from the window in an equilateral shines through this window down into the high-entropy triangle. 
triangle to the northeast of the office tower. The center line 
of this triangle lies on a direct line with the stained glass Methods
window and the setting sun on the winter solstice. 

Entropy increases within this triangle. Light bulbs and Investigation: Researching the many different types of prob-
other electrical components burn out faster than they lems that have been occurring within the high-entropy zone 
should, car parts need to be replaced more often, electron- gives characters more information about exactly what is going 
ics frequently break or malfunction, and illnesses are both on. Roll Intelligence + Investigation to uncover one particular 
more common and more severe. Initially, the triangle was anomaly within this area. Once the characters begin exploring 
only four blocks on a side, but it has been growing. At the this phenomenon, another Intelligence + Investigation roll 
same time, entropy has been increasing within the entire reveals the size and shape of the region of high entropy.
affected area. Currently, the region is almost two miles on a Medicine: Understanding exactly how strange and un-
side and, within this area, light bulbs and other components precedented the medical anomalies found within the high-
last slightly less than half as long as they should. The region entropy zone are requires an Intelligence + Medicine roll. 
continues to grow until it is 21 miles on a side and electronic Athletics: If someone wants to steal the stained glass window 
components last one quarter as long as normal. or the stone sphere at its center, they’ll need to get out to it. 

People who live or work within this area are already suffer- Climbing from the Barlowe Building’s roof out to the stained 
ing from more and worse illnesses than people elsewhere in glass window requires an extended Strength + Athletics roll with 
the city, and the health effects of the high-entropy area are get- a -2 modifier (one roll equals one minute of climbing, five suc-
ting worse. From colds and the flu to surgical complications cesses are required). Failure means that the character loses her 
and cancer, the increased entropy is slowly killing people. grip and sacrifices one banked success to stabilize herself. Failure 
However, if the window containing the sphere is destroyed with no successes banked means the character falls, probably to 
or stolen and placed in a heavy wooden or metal container, her death (unless she has anchored herself somehow). 
the affected region returns to normal in less than a day. Larceny: Getting into the Barlowe building during busi-

ness hours is easy, but getting up to the roof requires getting 

Linchpins past an electronic lock and alarm system. Roll Dexterity + 
Larceny at -4 to manage this challenging feat. 

The characters are most likely to get involved because they Socialize: Convincing physicians, electricians, tech-
have all noticed some odd phenomena within the affected re- support personnel, or other people who work in or near the 
gion. A maintenance technician for a convenience store chain high-entropy area to talk in detail about the oddities they 
might notice that stores within the affected region have far have noticed requires a Presence + Socialize roll.
more electrical problems than other stores, and these problems Subterfuge: Talking one of the maintenance or security per-
range from light bulbs burning out faster to electronics breaking sonnel from the Barlowe Building into letting you up on the roof 
down and software crashing much more frequently. A physician requires a Manipulation + Subterfuge roll at -4. Of course, you 
working in the emergency room in a hospital near the region could use Social Maneuvering (p. 81), but that takes a bit longer.
sees that an increasing number of people in the ER come from Danger Sense (p. 44): Regardless of how the characters 
this region. Combined with the information the characters have get onto the roof of the Barlowe Building, having a sense 
seen on their own, they’ll know something is up. for danger helps them avoid going up there when one of the 

Characters who want to investigate this region can determine maintenance staff is also on the roof, and also alerts them if 
the edges of the region simply by entering or leaving it carrying building security personnel are closing in. 

213 
The Moon Window



Psychometry, (p. 58): What secrets might a magical tests on the other two objects. None of the results should be 
sphere taken from the moon hold? Using psychic powers to identical to the effects of this object, but characters can find two 
find out might be dangerous to one’s sanity, but too great a other locations in nearby cities where strange phenomena occur. 
temptation to ignore. In one, people see ghosts and hear voices far more often than 

normal (Ghost Machine, p. 207). In the other, the overall level 

Escalation of fear and dread has significantly increased, leading to a local 
rise in violent crime and suicide (if this continues, it could lead 

The stone sphere is only one of three artifacts astronauts to This Is Hell, p. 231; left in a “milder” state it might lead to 
recovered from the moon. Other people are performing different The 300 Block; p. 197).

WAKE THE DEAD 
One of you killed a man who wasn’t supposed to die. More importantly, one or more of the characters needs 

Maybe he had it coming, maybe he didn’t, but anyhow, he’s to be directly responsible for the death of another person. 
gone and that’s when everything started going wrong and the Maybe the players know about it, or maybe it’s a terrible secret 
dead started waking up. The cause? You’re going to have to one keeps from the others. The example character, Lucien 
find it and stop it, because no one else can. McJack, is presented as a man killed by accident, but feel free 

to adapt him to fit any unfortunate victim of the characters. 

Infrastructure 
Most of the action in this story should happen in the small Blueprints

towns and on the back roads of middle America, largely focused The God-Machine had plans that have started to un-
on the region that was once the Dust Bowl. (Northwest Texas, coil thanks to a random act of mortality. When the God-
eastern New Mexico, the Oklahoma panhandle, and much of Machine’s designs were countermanded, some gear or wheel 
Kansas and Colorado). The characters’ stories could stretch as started spinning backward. The living continued to die, but 
far north as the Dakotas, west as San Diego, and east as Ohio. some of the dead just started living again. It isn’t a thing the 
Anywhere you imagine a small population, dirt and dust, and a God-Machine is doing directly, but rather, a side effect of 
touch of the nomadic trucker culture, you can drop these stories. messing with its plans. 

All over these rural and roadside communities the Because human death is so indiscriminate, these resurrec-
rumors fly. Jacob McKenzie got knifed in a bar fight three tions are similarly chaotic. As the characters run into more 
weeks back, but didn’t stay dead for too long. Elsie Wilson’s incidences of people returning from the dead, (though not 
son came home to her before Christmas even though he always coming back to life — most often, they come back as 
got killed in the war. And the Maple widows aren’t sleep- undead creatures), they might see that even the happiest end-
ing alone anymore since both of their husbands returned. ings have a bitter twinge to them and painful irony hovers over 
Here and there, the dead are coming back. Sometimes it’s each person touched by these events. A father might wish, 
nothing, life as normal, just full of bittersweet memories and fervently, for his son to come back to life — but when the boy 
worry. Sometimes it’s a horror movie, complete with brain does return, is that really what the father wanted? A person 
eating and screaming. No two stories play out exactly the killed by her lover in the heat of passion returns to life and 
same way, but for some reason all these stories are coming crawls out of the shallow grave she was buried in. Does she 
to the characters’ ears. want revenge? Answers? Or maybe she forgives her lover and 

The Truth: The Infrastructure at work here is logistical, wants to go back to him?
but it’s all gone wrong. The characters (one of them, at least) Ultimately, the characters unravel the cause of the chaos: 
killed a person for whom the God-Machine had further plans, the man one of them killed, who is now a soulless corpse pos-
but instead of the plans shifting, the God-Machine is trying sessed by an evil spirit (see Lucien McJack, p. 244). At this 
to correct the death. Unfortunately things got muddled, and point they’ll have to face their own actions, their own mortal-
the God-Machine isn’t sure who it’s supposed to bring back, ity, and agents of the God-Machine as they try to stop this 
hence the haphazard nature of this story. senseless nightmare of life and death. They may try to bring 

back the man they killed to end the onslaught. They may get 

Interchangeable Parts the idea that bringing him back will be worse, and try to stop 
the God-Machine. That might involve finding out what was so 

The characters might be truckers, runaways, a band, stu- special about the man they killed — a man who, unfortunately, 
dents out to “discover themselves,” a group of writers and artists has already returned to “life,” but is in no condition to pick 
trying to be Hemingway or Kerouac, ghost or storm chasers, up where he left off.  
but whoever they are, they need to be able to live nomadically. 

214 
Tales of the God machine



The Mirror Vulture’s traits can be found on p. 260.

Magical Realism Methods
The intended feel of Wake the Dead is a genre Occult: How many different cultures talk about the dead 
called magical realism, a style of fiction in which returning to life? Actually, almost all of them. How many of 
the fantastic or magical is presented in a straight- those cultural tales have useful information on how to put 
forward manner, alongside more realistic or mun- the dead back down? That might take some research. Start 
dane events. Much of Tom Robbins’ work (Skinny with Intelligence + Occult; it’s probably an extended action.
Legs and All, Another Roadside Attraction), Van Science: This feather bears all the marks of use — it’s got 
Gogh’s Bad Café (Frederic Tuten) and The Time- dust particles between the barbs, individual barbules, and it 
Traveler’s Wife (Audrey Niffenegger) are literary 
examples. Cinematic examples include Midnight clearly fell from a wing. So how in the world can it be made of 

in Paris (2011, dir. Woody Allen) and Like Water mirrored glass? Roll Intelligence + Science to run some analyses. 
for Chocolate (1992, dir. Alfonso Arau). Stealth: When you met dead-Nancy at the bar, she’d been 

back six months and dead three years before that. She’s pretty 
The genre isn’t widely associated with horror, sure if you want to see the “things” that brought her back, 
largely because of the disconnect between what you’re going to have to hide out at the cemetery at night. 
the protagonists in horror movies believe is real 
and what the antagonist of a horror movie reveals Come nightfall, you realize you aren’t alone. Roll Composure 

to be real (that is, one of the big scares in vampire + Stealth to stay still enough to go unnoticed while you wait 
movies is often the revelation that vampires exist for the other lurking figures to reveal themselves.
at all). Several of the films based on Stephen Survival: The miles between towns seem to stretch on 
King’s work (including It; 1990), The Serpent and forever, and it may be time to admit everyone is too tired 
the Rainbow (1987, dir. Wes Craven), The Craft to keep traveling. The temperature has dropped; roll Wits + 
(1996, dir. Andrew Fleming) and Practical Magic Survival to set up a warm, safe camp for the night and hope 
(1998, dir. Griffin Dunne) include elements of you can ignore the sound of beating wings.
magical realism. For purposes of this Tale, howev- Persuasion: Turns out the local sheriff isn’t too keen on 
er, the best cinematic source of inspiration is prob- people poking around his town, especially since he’s got more 
ably Cemetery Man (1994, dir. Michele Soavi), in than a few things to hide now that the dead may be talking. 
which Rupert Everett plays a gravedigger who has 
to cope with the dead rising from their graves. He’s got the shotgun and the power to make bodies disappear 

(assuming the damn things stay dead). Roll Manipulation + 
The walking dead in Wake the Dead might behave Persuasion to convince him you’re on his side in all this. 
like the flesh-eating zombies we’re so familiar with, Socialize: The party started out as a wake, but then the de-
but they might just as well try to pick up their lives ceased stood up and quaffed a beer, and now it’s gone all weird. 
where they left off. That the world doesn’t come to Roll Presence + Socialize to get everybody celebrating again. 
a screeching halt as word of this instance spreads is 
where the magical realism comes in. If that’s not a Medium (p. 57): The disembodied dead stand as silent 

paint you want in the box, then keep the focus of this witnesses to the horrific mutilation of the natural order. They 
story local and assume that even if people do spread are mostly impotent in their rage, except that you can hear 
the word, no one outside the community believes it. them. You can hear just how very angry they are. 

Indomitable (p.45): When you find Lucien McJack, he’ll 
probably be angry, since you killed him. Being strong of mind 
will help you resist his fear-enhancing powers. 

Linchpins Escalation
Anyone brought back from the dead bears the mark of 

the God-Machine or its servants. Burn scars, which look like The end of this story might see the characters leaving the 
a giant raptor put its talons into the victim, and the smell region with a feeling of “what the hell just happened?” and 
of rust that won’t quite go away are common to many of the heading into an area where things are a little more…normal. 
returned dead (though not all). While “normal” isn’t a term that applies to events in any 

Early on, the characters hear tell of uncommonly-big car- God-Machine chronicle, it might underline the mood of this 
rion birds near affected locations. Someone else describes metal Tale to step things back a bit, perhaps using a more accessible 
angels with lists of names for judgment sparkling across the Tale like The Key (p.208) or The Hatching (p. 226). Note 
mirrored surface of their wings. Witnesses don’t realize they’re that “accessible” is a highly relative term.
talking about the same being, but the angel in question — called On the other hand, maybe Wake the Dead forms a transi-
the Mirror Vulture — isn’t here to feast on the dead. It’s only tion into some truly strange Tales. From here, your characters 
here to check each of the returned dead and see if the one the might wish to enter other dimensions (Missing Persons, p. 
God-Machine wants has returned. Its mission says nothing 210) or encounter celestial beings (This is Hell, p. 231).  
about putting the dead back down again, so it doesn’t bother. 

215 
Wake the Dead



A GLIMPSE OF  
MESMERIZING  
COMPLEXITY

One major cause of auto accidents in the US, Europe, the God-Machine.
and other nations with nationwide highway networks is the And what, in fact, is the function of the gear constructs? 
fact that complex moving constructs of gears fly through the They are collecting data for the God-Machine. This data 
air along some of these highways. These constructs appear, is related to cars, machines, human travel and traffic, or 
fly rapidly, and then disappear, but anyone who sees them is possibly even emissions. For purposes of this story, it isn’t 
mesmerized and can easily crash because they aren’t paying strictly necessary to decide what the God-Machine is looking 
attention to their surroundings. for, but when the characters find the factory (see below) it 

might be effective to discover that the workers are keeping 

Infrastructure tabs on bizarrely-specific information — how many cars have 
personalized plates, bumper stickers, red-haired drivers, empty 

Strange moving constructs of gears fly through the air pop cans in the back seat, etc. What could the God-Machine 
all over the planet. They are usually intangible, invisible to possibly gain from learning this data? 
most people, and almost impossible to photograph. However, 
people who are intoxicated, exceedingly tired, or otherwise 
in an unusual state of mind can often see them. The first Interchangeable Parts
sight of one of these flying gear constructs mesmerizes The characters should be people who drive regularly, and 
anyone who sees it. Viewers find themselves briefly unable all of them should recently have been involved in an auto 
to look away or to think clearly about anything other than accident caused because one of the drivers involved saw the 
how fascinating it appears. People who see a gear construct gear constructs. Characters might also be frequent travelers 
while driving or walking across a street are far more likely that hear stories about “blips,” odd lights on the highways 
to lose control of their vehicle or not notice the presence of that act as modern-day will-o’-the-wisps, confusing drivers 
another vehicle than someone able to pay attention to the and leading them off the roads.
world around them. 

The Truth: As with the portal-creating mechanisms in Blueprints
Missing Persons (p. 210), the God-Machine has concealed 
the factory creating the gear constructs. Unlike that other The gear constructs are approximately six feet in diameter. 
facility, however, this one is in Twilight, which does have a They are composed of a brilliantly polished and exceedingly 
set of understandable and consistent rules for interacting complex set of interlocking metal gears and strange decorations 
with people and their world. Hiding the factory in Twilight that appear to be made from brightly-colored stone or glass, and 
is, therefore, concealment Infrastructure. they fly between two and eight feet above the ground. Although 

Unfortunately for the God-Machine, building things in they can appear anywhere, most often the gear constructs fly 
Twilight means, of necessity, that they will take on spiritual along major roads and other long, relatively-straight paths. 
aspects. The gear constructs are not just complex because of Gear constructs are most often found flying along U.S. 
their craftsmanship, they carry with them the spiritual essence interstate highways and large motorways and autobahns in 
of complexity. This, perhaps, is why people are becoming so Europe. Flying along these roads simplifies their navigation 
fascinated with them. slightly, and many of the freeways, highways, and motorways 

Astute players might wonder why the blips are only show- in the developed world were specifically designed to provide 
ing up now, if the constructs have been following (and may navigation paths for these gear constructs. Anyone who re-
indeed have influenced) the formation of the US highway searches the history of large highway networks in any nation 
system? The answer is that they have been here all along, finds that plans are always changed partway through the 
it’s just that before, when people noticed them and got design process and that perfectly-straight roads are strongly 
into wrecks, they were more likely to be seriously injured preferred over gently curving roads, even if the latter would 
or killed. The accident fatality rate on the highways is lower make more sense for the terrain. The movement of the gear 
than it ever has been, because cars are getting safer. But at constructs significantly improves the reception and trans-
the same time, more cars are on the road. That means more mission of all types of radio signals and the God-Machine 
people are seeing the constructs, and living to tell about it. created this network because it found out that people were 
This has the potential to become an untenable situation for using many more radio signals. 

216 
Tales of the God machine



The gear constructs appear, spinning in midair. Once they constructs fly at a slow walking pace and briefly pause at 31 points, 
appear, the constructs immediately stop spinning and fly in where several humanoid creatures with 16 long, many-jointed 
precise, straight lines for between 40 and 700 miles. While fingers and six small compound eyes work on these constructs 
they are flying, they are completely intangible. At their destina- with a variety of complex mechanical and electronic tools. 
tion, gear constructs pause for two seconds during which they These creatures work constantly and all have a plug com-
become solid. They then spin rapidly for another two seconds ing out from the back of their bald, ovoid heads. These plugs 
and vanish. When they appear and disappear, they are briefly attach to a single wire that runs along the length of the build-
surrounded by a rotating sphere of glowing light 12 feet in ing. Pulses of red-orange light regularly travel along this wire, 
diameter. This glowing sphere is the visible manifestation of and fainter pulses flow down each of the dozens of cables 
the doorways into and out of the stations that maintain and that attach the creatures to this wire. While plugged into the 
recalibrate the gear constructs. These stations are all located wire, all of the creatures move in exactly the same fashion. 
in Twilight. Gear constructs typically travel a single route every These gear workers ignore visitors unless the visitors disturb 
five to 30 minutes and fly at approximately 80 miles per hour. them or the gear constructs. If someone does either, the nearest 
All of the gear constructs moving along one route take 
the same path, always appearing and disappearing 
in exactly the same locations.

If left undisturbed, the gear constructs 
continue to fly along their paths, and the 
accident rate all across the world increases 
because people occasionally see them. If the 
rumors about the “blips” becomes wide-
spread — maybe someone captures one on 
a smartphone video and it goes viral — the 
accidents increase in frequency because 
now drivers are looking for the constructs. 
The gear constructs have been moving 
in and out of our world for almost 60 
years and will do so for many decades 
in the future. 

Linchpins
The best way to learn about the 

gear constructs is to travel to 
one of the maintenance and 
recalibration stations they 
travel to when they vanish. 
Anyone who grabs onto a gear 
construct when it is tangible 
travels with it when it vanish-
es. Also, the rotating, glow-
ing sphere remains visible 
for three seconds after the 
gear construct has departed. 
Anyone touching this sphere 
sees his arm vanish into the 
space where the gear construct 
goes. Characters who are swift 
can follow the gear construct 
to its otherworldly destina-
tion. Characters who follow a 
gear construct find themselves in 
a building the size of a large ware-
house, located in Twilight.

Inside this building, characters see a 
line of gear constructs slowly moving from 
one end of the building to the other. The gear 

217 
A Glimpse of Mesmerizing Complexity



creature unplugs itself and attempts to prevent the intruder Crafts: An Intelligence + Crafts roll allows a character 
from interfering with the constructs. If an unplugged gear to disable a gear construct while it has briefly paused so the 
worker touches one of the characters, it begins to scream a characters can examine and photograph it. Characters can 
single, high, continuous note, never pausing to draw breath. make another Intelligence + Crafts roll to reactivate the gear 
This scream draws other gear workers who attempt to capture construct, so that if it is placed next to one of the entrance 
the characters and drag them off behind doorways leading points into the maintenance station, it begins to spin and 
off to the side of the factory. Behind these doors, the gear create the spherical portal into Twilight.
workers mind probe intruders using a device that bores into Athletics: A successful Dexterity + Athletics roll with a 
their brains. After determining what the person knows, the -3 penalty enables a character to climb onto a gear construct 
gear workers place the person in a vat that takes three days to as it pauses before dematerializing and flying into the main-
transform a human into a gear worker (use the traits provided tenance station. Characters may also make an unmodified 
for clockwork servitors on p. 255 to represent gear workers; Dexterity + Athletics roll to get into the glowing sphere that 
they have the Enhanced Speed ability). leads to the factory, before it vanishes. 

Leaders of any effort to destroy gear constructs or make Drive: A character that sees a gear construct runs the risk 
them public are likely to be involved in some form of seri- of driving off the road. Roll Composure + Drive, applying 
ous car accident. If one of the leaders allows her identity to any appropriate penalties. Failure means the car crashes.
become public, or is ever noticed by the gear workers, then Empathy: A successful Presence + Empathy roll can be 
any time she crosses or drives along a path traveled by the used to convince people who have been in auto accidents to 
gear constructs a construct attempts to strike her or her car, talk about gear constructs they may have seen. 
becoming tangible an instant before it hits. The gear work- Streetwise: Characters can make a Manipulation + 
ers also immediately attack these leaders if they ever enter a Streetwise roll to discover both others who have seen the gear 
maintenance station. constructs and people who might be interested in attempting 

Characters could also attempt to make the gear constructs to destroy them.
visible. Telling people exactly what to look for, especially if these Crack Driver (p. 47): Characters who are excellent drivers 
people are already inclined to believe in strange phenomena, are better at following gear constructs through traffic to find 
allows many of them to see the gear constructs. In addition, out where they vanish.
flying gear constructs show up on ultraviolet-sensitive film, Anonymity (p. 50): Anyone who is good at keeping her 
and a captured gear construct shows up on any type of film, identity secret is better at organizing actions to destroy the 
including online videos. Sufficient publicity eventually causes gear constructs without being targeted by the gear constructs.
the routes to be changed; the God-Machine finds that sending 
the constructs slightly higher and directly over the traffic al- Escalation
lows the same data collection without the same accident risk. 

Any online videos of the gear constructs are taken down The gear constructs begin becoming visible and tangible 
in fewer than 24 hours, and anyone who openly posts such a all the time. In addition, thousands of maintenance stations 
video has their account with the online video-sharing network appear across the world. People who are not sufficiently quick 
mysteriously cancelled, and all of their other videos deleted. and careful when investigating these stations are captured 
Anyone who makes several blog posts attempting to convince and are later seen on the maintenance lines with a plug in 
the public about the existence of the gear constructs is also the back of their now-bald heads. The number of gear con-
at risk for being hit by a flying gear construct. structs begins to increase and the stations expand as bands 

of workers begin kidnapping humans and modifying them 

Methods into workers to build more factories. At this point, the God-
Machine may decide to kill off anyone it can’t convert (The 

Academics: Characters can make an Intelligence + Scarlet Plague, p. 225).
Academics to collate reports of glowing objects flying along Or, if you don’t want to be that blatant, maybe the gear 
roads, and to discover that such reports occur in much of constructs have another purpose. They might reanimate the 
the world and are almost exclusively found along highways, dead (Wake the Dead, p. 214) or start yanking people to 
freeways, and motorways. An exceptional success on this roll processing stations (Missing Persons, p. 210). Continuing the 
may turn up anomalies about how the exact paths of various theme of running on a track, maybe the gear constructs be-
highways were chosen. come the “traffic controllers” of Squares of the City (p. 203). 

218 
Tales of the God machine



THE INVISIBLE CITADEL
In northern Germany there is a secret city known as the remembering their work as an enjoyable opportunity to keep 

Golden Citadel. The angels that control the city have caused in shape and help build something important. However, 
almost everyone in the world to forget its existence, while almost half of the people called to the Citadel remain there. 
also calling an increasing number of people from across the The Truth: The city is an exercise in concealment 
globe to help work in it. The characters must find a way to Infrastructure — a city not far from human settlements that 
attempt to infiltrate the citadel, banish the angels, and free is built in such a way that it doesn’t stay in human conscious-
the many inhabitants. ness on a conceptual level. In a sense, it’s cognitive conceal-

ment, and it’s the most successful example of its type. Not 

Infrastructure only do people ignore the Citadel, but they seamlessly fit it 
into their worldview — it’s an art colony. It’s a commune. It’s 

The story begins when one of the characters finds and non-threatening, maybe even beneficial. The God-Machine 
purchases a curious old footlocker at an estate sale or a resale finds it easy enough to create suspicion and fear, but with the 
shop. It is filled with loose papers, bits of wire, and a diary. Golden Citadel, it’s trying to create acceptance or apathy. It 

The diary was written by Maria Grunewald. It begins seems to be working. 
almost 30 years ago with entries about how she worked with 
a dozen people to build an abstract sculpture of metal and 
bone that was the size of large RV. At the beginning of her Interchangeable Parts
diary, she writes about how this sculpture will transform the The characters can be anywhere in the world, except they 
world in wondrous ways. However, the tone soon changes to should be at least 1,000 miles from Bremen, Germany. The 
one of fear and then horror as she writes about being one of characters could be almost anyone. They need know nothing 
the architects of the destruction of humanity’s free will. Ms. about the Golden Citadel. The story kicks off when they 
Grunewald writes about how the sculpture attracted people come into possession of Ms. Grunewald’s footlocker, though, 
from all across Germany to build a town around it and how so working that into a previous story would set this one up.
this town eventually grew into a city, which attracted thou-
sands of people from all across the world. Blueprints

She calls this city the Golden Citadel and, in the last 
portion of the diary, writes about how it is a horrifying If nothing is done, the Citadel continues to expand. For 
construction that hides from the thoughts and memories of the last 20 years, it has been calling workers from across most 
humanity, but draws people to it. According to her, a grow- of Europe and parts of Asia, and within the past six years 
ing number of people are drawn to build and work in the people from the U.S., Mexico, and Canada have also been 
Golden Citadel. Once someone leaves for the Citadel, his called there. The citadel is perfectly circular and expands as 
friends and loved ones believe that this person moved and a series of concentric rings, like the growth rings of a tree. 
lost touch with them or died. The angels use the power of the original sculpture to cause a 

In an entry dated a decade before, she writes how the growing number of people to feel that working on the Golden 
population of the Golden Citadel is almost half a million Citadel is important and also to cause everyone else to ignore 
people and that it continues to grow. The diary also men- the citadel. However, the control fails to affect a few people. 
tions that an increasing number of people are being fed to Some of these people see the Citadel as a strange and unfath-
the Citadel to aid in its growth. Ms. Grunewald fears that omable creation built by a cult that brainwashes the workers. 
within 25 years, this city will encompass most of Germany and Others feel an inexplicable hatred of it and believe it to be evil. 
that it could continue to expand until much of the world’s Direct attacks against the Citadel fail because anyone 
population works there. At least one of the characters has who comes within 25 miles of the Citadel automatically feels 
seen or read brief news reports about an eccentric artists’ positively towards it. This positive feeling causes only mild 
colony in Northern Germany near Bremen called the Golden changes to anyone lacking hostile feelings towards the Citadel. 
Citadel. However, none of the reports describe it as being However, the more that someone feels negatively about the 
home to more than a thousand people. The few people who Citadel, the more the person loses free will while within the 
know about it consider it a weird art project built by a few area of effect. Some who attempt to attack the Citadel remain 
hundred eccentrics, thus unworthy of attention or comment. there today as part of its permanent maintenance staff be-

In reality, the Golden Citadel has been calling susceptible cause they can think of nothing beyond serving the Citadel. 
people from all across the world to help expand it. Much The number of people serving the Citadel increases every 
of the economy of the city of Bremen has been devoted to decade. In time, it grows so large that the entire population of 
providing these workers with food, shelter, and raw materi- central Europe exists solely to serve it and the people build-
als. Some of these workers return home after a few months, ing it. A few crank websites discuss fears, theories, and data 

219 
The Invisible Citadel



about the Citadel, but few people post on them for more openly photograph any of the Citadel’s bizarre oddities, 
than a few months, and several of the frequent posters write like the four-armed creatures, someone nearby politely but 
like unmedicated schizophrenics. firmly reminds this person that she should not photograph 

such things. Groups of inhabitants forcibly restrain anyone 

Linchpins who persists. 
To end the power of the Golden Citadel, characters must 

Near the end of her diary, Ms. Grunewald describes a locate and destroy the sculpture that Maria Grunewald helped 
simple construct of wire, capacitors, and resistors capable of to construct. The local populace has continued to add to it. This 
blocking the effects of the Citadel’s mind control. However, sculpture is now a bizarre and ugly hodgepodge of materials the 
the tone of the papers changes again to a renewed sense size of a one-family house. It is located very near the center of the 
of joy at the existence of the Citadel and a growing deter- Golden Citadel. The notes Maria Grunewald made about this 
mination to go and help build it. In with these papers is a sculpture mention that it must remain uncovered and in the open. 
circuit diagram for a simple network of circuits designed to However, the workers constructed the Golden Citadel so that the 
be worn as a skullcap or under a hat, along with a single, sculpture is located amidst a maze of streets, which contain dozens 
mostly-complete device that lacks only a pair of resistors and of five- and six-story apartment buildings. Characters who wander 
a length of wire to finish it. through the central part of the Citadel eventually discover it, but 

If the characters build circuits to protect them from the this effort could take three or four days. However, anyone with 
influence of the angels, they’ll all suddenly remember one or binoculars who climbs one of the tall cathedrals or factories can 
two young people who mentioned they would be traveling to located the sculpture far more rapidly. If the characters can destroy 
the Golden Citadel to pursue their art or “find themselves,” the sculpture, all the inhabitants of the Citadel collapse. The non-
and that all of the characters then forgot about these people. humans soon die, and the humans are dazed and semiconscious 
If the characters research the Golden Citadel online while for several hours, and remain confused about where they are or 
wearing the circuit, they find a few blog posts about a huge and what they have been doing after they recover. 
disturbing city near Bremen that continues to expand. Most 
of these blog posts end with the people writing that they have 
decided to go and visit or work in the Golden Citadel. Any Methods
character who reads one of these entries when not wearing the Crafts: Characters who want to blow up the sculpture 
circuit skullcap instantly forgets what he has read. The diary at the center of the Citadel must make an Intelligence + 
also explains that Ms. Grunewald believed that the sculpture Crafts (with a Specialty in Explosives) roll to correctly place 
she helped build is the focus of the Golden Citadel’s power, explosives and arrange timers or detonators to destroy it. 
and that if it is destroyed the Citadel’s power will vanish. Medicine: Students of psychiatric medicine might dis-

Surrounded by brightly-painted concrete walls 40 feet cover a paper written by a psychologist in the late 1980s. In 
high with a single large gateway, the Citadel is currently 16 it, he referred to the Berlin Wall’s collapse as a turning point 
miles in diameter. The interior consists of a series of large for Europe, and referred to a psychological construct called 
apartment buildings surrounding a collection of taller and a “Golden Citadel.” An Intelligence + Medicine roll while 
stranger-looking buildings that resemble somewhat looming, reading his case studies indicates that his subjects thought 
menacing, modern cathedrals. of the Citadel as a literal place, and all referred to it as being 

In addition to being able to remember and think about near Bremen, not Berlin.  
the Golden Citadel, anyone wearing the circuit skullcap Drive: Characters can make a Dexterity + Drive roll to 
can also safely enter the Citadel without being controlled either escape pursuit within the Citadel or to blend normally 
into working for it. The people working there won’t notice into the constant, but exceedingly orderly, flow of traffic in 
anything odd about the characters if they don’t draw atten- and around it.
tion to themselves. Once inside, the characters see that more Stealth: Moving unobserved through the Citadel or dis-
than a tenth of the workers aren’t human. Some are instead creetly planting explosives on the central sculpture requires 
dimwitted but exceedingly strong, four armed, and vaguely a successful Dexterity + Stealth roll. 
humanoid creatures. These creatures come from one large Streetwise: Anyone who wants to find some of the few 
building containing a huge and squirming mass of flesh that other people who know about the Golden Citadel can make 
ingests the dozens of corpses brought to it every day and gives a Presence + Streetwise roll at -3 to attempt to do so.
birth to more four-armed workers. The other nonhuman Subterfuge: Observing and being able to mimic the 
workers are clockwork servitors (see p. 255) that emerge from reactions and nonverbal cues of the workers in the Citadel 
another large building that some people regularly enter and well enough to avoid suspicion requires a Manipulation + 
do not leave, where humans drive trucks in, full of machine Subterfuge roll.
parts. Inside is a huge, spiderlike Dalga (see p. 256). Unarmed Defense (p. 65): Weapons are hard to come by 

Everyone in the city is eager, friendly, and polite, and in the Golden Citadel, but that doesn’t mean the characters 
none of them notices anything odd about working around won’t be threatened. 
four-armed creatures, humanoid clockworks, huge, squirm- Fleet of Foot (see p. 47): Being a fast runner can help 
ing masses of flesh, or huge spiders. If anyone attempts to characters escape pursuit within the Citadel. 

220 
Tales of the God machine



Escalation Perhaps the Citadel has grown to the size of Germany 
and a fifth of the entire population of the EU works there. 

If the characters manage to destroy the Citadel, the God- People across the entire world travel to the Citadel to work, 
Machine writes this off as a failed experiment and looks for and most young people have spent at least one summer 
other subtle ways to conceal its Infrastructure. Maybe it entrusts working there. Maybe everyone on Earth knows about it and 
a great measure of its power to an individual (The Key, p. 208), considers it either unimportant, or as something important 
or maybe it tries to cloud minds more directly (A Glimpse they should help build and run. With this kind of direct 
of Mesmerizing Complexity, p. 216). On the other hand, involvement, you could continue on to This Is Hell (p. 231) 
maybe the distraction of having the Citadel destroyed blinds or Urban Wandering (p. 235).
the God-Machine to a more immediate problem, one that 
the characters now need to correct (The Hatching, p. 226). 

OPERATION: BELL JAR
In the North Sea, an oil-drilling platform has apparently The Truth: Arnold Diefenbach merged with the oil rig. 

become the base of operations for a terrorist group. The He was content to continue with the rig’s original function 
characters arrive to find it empty, but shortly thereafter they for a time, but then the God-Machine found it had need of 
discover that the problem is much larger than they’d feared. the platform. It moved the drill slightly and pushed down 

into the sea bed, seeking to uncover something left buried 

Infrastructure for millions of years (see Blueprints). When the crew noticed 
this, they assumed it was a malfunction and tried to shut it 

West Nautical 36 (p. 251) is an oil-drilling platform in down — and Diefenbach killed them all. The oil rig itself is 
the North Sea. Up until recently, it was showing promising defense Infrastructure.
signs of being a moderately-productive drilling site. But then 
an intense storm hit the area. Most of the crew got off in 
time, but one engineer, Arnold Diefenbach, stayed aboard Interchangeable Parts
to try and stabilize the platform. When the rest of the crew The characters are members of the elite team of soldiers 
and rescue personnel arrived once the weather had calmed, sent to retake the rig. They might be Navy SEALs, British 
they found the platform with minor damage but in perfect Commandos, Swedish Särskilda Operationsgruppen, or 
working order. Diefenbach was nowhere to be found, and French Commandos Marine. Someone in the group is prob-
was assumed to have been swept overboard. ably trained in explosive ordinance disposal, and the group 

In the weeks that followed, the platform began producing might also include a civilian engineer (in case the rig needs 
oil at an incredible rate. The company devoted more resources emergency repair). 
to the rig, expanding its production capability and conduct- If your players are up for something a little different, 
ing studies into the feasibility of making another well in the though, they might control a communications team from an 
area. And then one night, the company, as well as emergency operations center on a ship or on the mainland. These char-
services in England, Belgium, and the Netherlands, received acters might be trained in the investigative Skills to determine 
frantic calls for help from the rig. When they tried to return what happened on the ship, while the soldiers act as their eyes 
those transmissions, they received no answer. The first group and ears with shoulder- or helmet-mounted cameras. Or, once 
of rescue personnel that got near the rig saw the crew hang- the soldiers arrive at the rig and find nothing immediately 
ing from cables, each with a sign on their body that read threatening, they might bring an investigative team out, al-
“STAY AWAY.” lowing the players to control a mix of soldiers and detectives.

The company and the countries involved immediately 
assumed that some terrorist group or cult had seized the rig, Blueprints
and tried to make contact to ascertain their demands. The 
response was always the same: “STAY AWAY.” Finally, the The God-Machine doesn’t necessarily want people dead 
various governments involved (the surrounding countries (it doesn’t really care, of course, but dead people tend to 
and the U.S.) assembled an elite team to travel to the rig at make other people interested, and that slows things down). 
night and retake it, kill or capture the perpetrators, and find Diefenbach, however, is just as obsessed with the rig as he’s 
out what damage had been done. That, of course, is where always been, and he views anyone that sets foot on it as an 
the characters come in. This mission is called Operation: intruder. The drilling apparatus is automated, and will con-
Bell Jar, because the area in which West Nautical 36 sits is tinue regardless of what the characters do to Diefenbach. 
almost impossible to approach without being seen or heard Stopping the drill requires killing Diefenbach and then getting 
but, likewise, no one is likely to escape from it unnoticed. the computer systems working again, or cutting the cables 

that provide power to the drills. 

221 
Operation Bell Jar



If the drill continues unabated, it eventually opens 
a cavern below the sea floor. Therein lies an exposed 
section of the God-Machine that hasn’t been in opera-
tion for millennia. It requires the oil above it to work, 
meaning that if the drill reaches this cavern, the God-
Machine pulls the oil from the deposit and then comes 
to life, absorbing the drill and the cables and assimilating 
the rig itself. If the characters are still on the rig when 
that happens, they are pulled beneath the waves and 
probably lost for good.  

Linchpins
The still-living parts to Arnold Diefenbach are the 

Linchpins for the West Nautical 36 Infrastructure. 
Killing him will, as mentioned, end the God-Machine’s 
ability to influence the rig — but it won’t stop the drill. 
Doing that requires either cutting the cable (Durability 8, 
Structure 11) or making the computers work (see below). 

Methods
Computer: Normally this wouldn’t be difficult, 

but the computer systems on the rig have merged with 
Diefenbach’s brain. Even after he dies, they don’t act like 
normal computer systems anymore. Roll Manipulation + 
Computer (extended action, each roll is 30 minutes, 10 
successes required) to get the systems to respond properly 
and stop the drill. If Diefenbach is still alive when this 
happens, he opposes the roll with Resolve + Computer. 

Medicine: Examination of the bodies of the rig 
workers (and a roll of Wits + Medicine) reveals they were 
strangled by cables. The cables apparently just dropped 
down, wrapped around their necks, and yanked them 
upwards, choking them.

Athletics: Diefenbach controls everything on the rig, 
including a great deal of machinery that is heavy enough 
to knock people into the ocean. If that happens, the 
player rolls Stamina + Athletics once per turn with a -2 
modifier for the character to tread water until someone 
can rescue him. 

Stealth: Diefenbach can only “see” through the 
security cameras on the rig — which, unfortunately, are 
plentiful. Roll Dexterity + Stealth to avoid them.  

Empathy: The people in charge of Operation: Bell 
Jar have been in communication with someone on the 
rig, someone they assume to be a terrorist. Examining 
the transcripts, though (and a successful Wits + Empathy 
roll), reveals that the patterns of speech and the “de-
mands” the supposed terrorist is making don’t betray a 
zealous or nationalist agenda.  

Streetwise: Characters with ties to mercenary 
or espionage groups might put out feelers to see if 
anyone knows anything about terrorist action against 
the rig. This requires a Manipulation + Streetwise roll 
and a lead time of at least a day. If the roll fails, the 
character hears of a terrorist group that takes credit 

222 
Tales of the God machine



for the killings. If the roll succeeds, not only does no one 
have any information about the incident, but the charac- Escalation
ter hears a rumor about a clandestine military ship that What happens if the God-Machine pulls the rig down and 
disappeared in that region of the North Sea a few months assimilates it? The characters might not survive this, of course 
ago (just after the storm). (or they might pull off a daring, last-minute escape, and watch 

Defensive Combat (p. 61): The rig doesn’t have much the whole thing vanish into the deep), but after the fact, the 
in the way of enemies to fight, but this Merit will help the whole area could suffer seaquakes and tsunamis as the God-
characters avoid attacks from machinery and cables. Machine changes things. This could lead into such high-stakes 

Psychokinesis (p. 58): A recently-trained member of some Tales as The Invisible Citadel (p. 219; maybe the characters 
secret military psychic contingent might be an interesting find the footlocker on the ship), The Scarlet Plague (p. 225; 
character for this Tale, especially if she can’t quite control the God-Machine needed the additional power to begin this 
her power yet. final solution) or What Is It Good For (p. 233; the characters 

might easily be transferred from this mission to that one). 

PROPOSITION 279 
Luck, happenstance, or your profession has landed you in or why, as long as it happens quickly and at the hands of other 

a political hotbed. Things have always been tough here, but human beings. The nation’s new governmental structure is 
no one saw the massive political push for Proposition 279 logistical Infrastructure, overseen by the angel, Mr. Nose.
coming. The law will not just make it illegal to be homosexual, 
it will make it a capital offense. Interchangeable Parts
Infrastructure Characters in this chronicle need to care about the people 

of the nation suffering such tragic upheaval or it will be dif-
Pick a location with a strict and borderline-corrupt government ficult to keep them involved in the goings on. 

or one with a religious fundamentalist regime (or make one up). Photographic and investigative journalists are logical choic-
Up until now, it’s been as fair as such a regime can be, with oppres- es for character types. So are aid workers and perhaps militant 
sion happening, but neither common nor horrific. Women vote, freedom fighters coming to aid in a potential rebellion. Even 
but are limited in their civil liberties. Homosexuality is forbidden, low-level politicians from more (nominally) civilized nations, 
but not criminal. It’s passive in its intolerance. moved by the stories, may come to parley peace while making 

That is, until religious leaders and politicians alike started names for themselves back home. And of course, you’ll find no 
calling for a sudden and impossibly-cruel law to be passed shortage of mercenaries and soldiers of fortune waiting around 
faster than the public could even consider it. The push came to see if war breaks out. Just make sure the mercenary-type 
out of nowhere and was nearly all encompassing. Police characters have deeper motivations than money. 
started rounding up suspected homosexuals and raiding The other possibility for characters, of course, is that they 
night clubs, even the most underground ones, in anticipation might be native to the affected nation, perhaps even people 
of the passing of the law. The military is preparing for mass that might fall under the proposed law (whether they actually 
executions and huge mass graves are being prepared along are homosexual or are simply perceived to be). 
roadsides. Human rights organizations are up in arms and 
are sending in diplomats, negotiators, and relief workers in Blueprints
hopes of avoiding the slaughter. The UN has stepped in, 
threatening sanctions, but the normally passive regime has The God-Machine wants nothing less than the wholesale 
suddenly been whipped up into a frenzy over the idea. slaughter of as many human beings, killed by other human 

Does it have something to do with the President’s new beings, as it can possibly reap in as short a time as possible. 
adviser, a pale, gloomy sort with a nose a little too small for The God-Machine needs deaths. It needs massive amounts 
his face, and dark, deep-set eyes? The President’s wife left the of sacrifice and the more that happen at the same time, the 
country shortly after the adviser was named, and since then better. It might need this death to gear up for some truly 
rumors have been flying. powerful, world-shaping initiative (the scary thing there is, 

The small nation has become a powder keg, and whether does that kind of thing happen after every such massacre? 
that will result in civil war to resist the sudden change in And if it does, what changed?), or perhaps as a test run to check 
policy, or the deaths of a tenth of the population, the charac- its systems of control. For the players, the reason should be 
ters have to quickly find a peaceful solution to the problem. as unknowable as the evil. It is because it is. 

The Truth: The God-Machine needs death. More specifi- It just so happens that this despot in this part of the world 
cally, it needs mass murder. It doesn’t actually care who dies came up with a way to accomplish his mandate, and he’s well 

223 
Proposition 279



on his way to murdering tens of thousands of people at once. Athletics: The military is raiding the house, and you aren’t 
What compounds matters is that those other leaders all over supposed to be here. You need to brace yourself in the rafters 
the world, dreaming of blood and glory, might follow in the until they go away, but if you slip you’ll fall right through the 
wake of success here with their own versions of Proposition ceiling. Roll Stamina + Athletics to hold that pose.
279. A growing tide of dead “undesirables” will sate the God- Stealth: It has come this far. Night sits heavily over the 
Machine’s need for massive sacrifice — or perhaps, with so President’s compound. You have no choice; you must sneak 
much death, the God-Machine might become “overclocked,” across the compound. Roll Dexterity + Stealth, because the 
and the world might burn. President must die.

If the characters don’t want to find out, they’re going Streetwise: The Catch-22 is, in order to protect the LGBT 
to have to stop it here in this little nation. Proposition 279 citizens who haven’t yet been brought in by the military po-
needs to fail, and it needs to fail spectacularly. Whether that lice, you have to find them. Finding them might put them 
means killing the President, bringing in help from other na- in more danger, but it’s a risk you may have to take. Roll 
tions or the UN, or organizing the people of the country to Manipulation + Streetwise to ask around and find middlemen 
stand up and overthrow the government, the characters have who can point you in the right direction safely. 
thousands of lives in their hands. Subterfuge: Why break into the prison when you can 

walk in? Roll Manipulation + Subterfuge to convince the 

Linchpins prison authorities that not only are you UN officials, but 
that as UN officials you have the right to see their prisoners. 

The papers call him “Mr. Nose” — at least the papers Status (Diplomatic) (p. 54): It’s about accesses. If you 
that don’t belong to the State. He’s the paper-white man want to get in where the movers and shakers are in this po-
standing just behind and to the left of the President during litical arena, you need access, and few people have as much 
speeches and in photo ops. In fact, he seems to be in pictures access as a well-placed diplomat. Just don’t push too far and 
where he wasn’t present in person, and now shows up in find yourself at the epicenter of an international incident.
images recorded before anyone had an account of him at Eidetic Memory (p. 44): Keeping a list of names is 
the President’s side. risky, because if you’re caught, they’ll find it. Better to just 

Mr. Nose is an angel, but one of fairly limited mobility memorize the names of the people in the area. It’s not like 
and power (more details on p. 261). Killing or disposing of the military can read minds, right?
him would be a good start, but it’s not going to eliminate 
the problem entirely; the President is still planning on going 
through with Proposition 279, with or without Mr. Nose. Of Escalation
course, without Mr. Nose, the President might be susceptible Putting down the President or stopping his plan from 
to new advisers, if the characters have the positions and continuing might be enough to encourage the God-Machine 
tenacity to take this route. to other goals. But it might not. The “big reveal” of this story 

should be that all the buildup, the politics and the hate is 

Methods a smoke screen. When humans kill each other en masse, it 
is worse than pointless. It’s in service to the God-Machine. 

Medicine: The President’s council is largely for show, From the Crusades to Darfur, humanity destroys itself using 
but they’ve agreed to a meeting. You have two minutes to any excuse it can come up with, and the God-Machine reaps 
explain why homosexuality isn’t a disease, a “lifestyle,” or an the benefits. Straight, gay, Roman, or Turkish, everyone is 
abomination, and it had better sound as scientific as possible. equal in the eyes of the God-Machine, and equally worthy of 
Roll Manipulation + Medicine to give them a good balance sacrifice. That kind of revelation might be the springboard 
of facts, reality, and medical jargon. into a cosmic Tale like What Is It Good For (p. 233) or This is 

Politics: Being militant will cost lives. Waiting on diplo- Hell (p. 231). Of course, after this harrowing experience, they 
macy might, too. You want to undercut the President’s power might prefer to go home (wherever home is) and deal with 
base by using his own propaganda machine against him. Roll something on a smaller scale. The 300 Block (p. 197) deals 
Intelligence + Politics to plan out your political assassination with murder as well, but for (on the surface) different reasons.
of the President. 

224 
Tales of the God machine



THE SCARLET PLAGUE 
Everywhere, all over the world, men are dying. Young men, that it’s been uncovered, the God-Machine is ready to move 

old men, boy children, they’re simply dropping dead left and on to new species, new plans, and maybe even new planets. 
right. Science has no explanation, and the world’s religions have Essentially, what we understand as “junk DNA” is the 
a million impossible answers. What no one has is a way to stop it. God-Machine’s back door into the human body. Now that 

it’s done, it’s sent its agents out into the world to access the 

Infrastructure back door, triggering the species to shut down, more or less. 
Centuries of breeding have rendered some men immune to 

The papers are saying every single male of the species is the triggered death and some women immune to the infertil-
dying out, but that isn’t exactly true. More like six or seven out ity. Either the God-Machine isn’t worried about it, or it plans 
of ten men are getting sick. They come down with a cough, to wipe out the remainder in more overt ways. 
followed by a fever, and then unexpectedly and too quickly for 
a normal disease, the men just die. The cause of death, near 
as anyone can tell, is blood in the lungs, though it’s incredible Linchpins
that so many able-bodied people can die like that. Not only The first sign of something that connects the deaths to 
are men dying out, but women are becoming infertile, though the God-Machine is the bizarre behavior of the lung blood 
this effect happens more slowly and insidiously. of the dead men. The blood, when removed from the body, 

The characters have to search out the reason for the dries into cubic, crystalline structures at a visible rate. Later, 
slow death of humanity. As they search, they find the God- further research will find similar blood crystals as polyps 
Machine. It’s done with humanity, and has set into motion in the reproductive organs of many of the infertile women. 
plans to wipe it from the face of the Earth. Cubic growths, squares, and orderly-growing inorganics 

The Truth: The disease is a global, species-specific elimi- should appear as motifs in the Tale, a manifestation of the 
nation Infrastructure, and the God-Machine has activated it God-Machine as it takes a more active role in the world. 
to destroy humanity so that it can get down to what it really The angel the God-Machine sent to facilitate this extinction 
needs the planet for. The characters — indeed, all humans — is Serotonin (see p. 263). Since the Infrastructure is so wide-
are simply products of an occult matrix that began hundreds spread, there really is no Linchpin for the characters to find.
of thousands of years ago. 

Interchangeable Parts Methods
Academics: The behaviors of several tribal nations have shifted 

The characters might be scientifically-minded explorers or dramatically as the Scarlet Plague sweeps the surface of the earth. 
philosophers seeking the truth behind the imminent extinction Anthropological studies suggest the behavior is too similar for co-
of their species. Perhaps they are a think tank, hooked up with incidence, and yet it is impossible to suggest cross communication. 
an archaeologist and a mercenary given carte blanche to travel Roll Intelligence + Academics to compare behaviors and analyze 
the world and hunt down the cause of the death and infertility. what’s made contact with all these isolated cultures. 

Consider throwing an empath or psychic in the mix. Computer: There is a pattern, you’re sure of it, a pattern 
Maybe have someone play a medium or just a sad sack who too large and maddening to organize and study on the micro 
had a brush with the God-Machine in the past. This story level. You’re going to need to study the cubic patterns on a 
works well as the last (or next to last) story in a long God- macro level. Roll Intelligence + Computers to build a program 
Machine chronicle, so if the characters have seen many of that can assist you in understanding the pattern.
the horrors of the God-Machine, they should have enough Brawl: Riots break out in major cities almost every day. 
feeling that they may understand it on some intrinsic level. Roll Wits + Brawl to find the path of least resistance through 
In discovering more about it, the character may find the the throngs and get out without actually having to fight.
solution to their species-wide nightmare. Survival: Supposedly, an apocalypse cult up in the 

Allegheny Mountains has a cure for the disease. It’s well off 

Blueprints the beaten path, though. Roll Intelligence + Survival to dead 
reckon your way there. 

It’s about uranium, pure and simple. Expression: The poetry of the dying, written by men 
The God-Machine had need of uranium. Not even a great on their deathbeds, has some common elements. It talks 

amount of uranium. Whether it created humanity to mine about angels, cubes, lines, and pain from deep within. Roll 
uranium or manipulated humanity to that point is impossible Intelligence + Expression to analyze the common elements. 
to tell. The point is, the God-Machine’s purpose for humanity Socialize: Well, the world isn’t going to end in our lifetime, 
was to mine a certain amount of uranium from the earth. Now so why not drink and party until there’s nothing left? The 

225 
The Scarlett Plague



rich and young, those who are left, have taken to throwing do with that knowledge will change the face of the world for-
macabre parties celebrating the apocalypse. Of particular ever. They might be able to attack the problem on a mystical 
interest is gathering great collections of so-called Vaseline level, forcing the God-Machine to deal with them directly 
Glass, glassware that’s made with uranium so that it glows (This is Hell, p. 231). 
under UV light. “It’s harmless,” they say, and if not, who Perhaps they band together to destroy humanity’s 
cares? Roll Manipulation + Socialize to find your own source stockpile of uranium, forcing the God-Machine to allow 
of the social commodities and have a closer look. humanity to thrive for at least another few centuries while it 

Tolerance for Biology (p. 46): Watching people vomit up tries to manipulate us into gathering more. This might lead 
blood isn’t easy or pleasant, but you’d better learn to deal into such Tales as Moon Window (p. 212) or The Invisible 
with it, because you’ll be seeing it a lot.  Citadel (p. 219). 

Cursed (p. 57): You already know how you’re going to die. It might be too late for that, and so the characters, in a 
Despite the odds, you know the God-Machine’s machinations last-ditch effort, reach out to communicate with the God-
aren’t going to bring you down. That’s why you’re willing to Machine and offer it a deal. Offer it something they think 
take risks the other characters won’t. You’ll get them the in- it might want more, and therefore, a reason to not end the 
formation, the clues, and the tools to stop the God-Machine, species. But the choice should not be an easy one. Perhaps 
because you have nothing left to fear. the God-Machine is willing to keep humanity around if it 

agrees to be a willing part of experiments to create a new 

Escalation and more interesting species. The chronicle could take on 
transhumanist undertones as the people of earth agree to 

Perhaps the characters unravel the pattern and see with become liquid, rapidly-mutating species in the hopes of being 
clarity this small part of the God-Machine’s plan. What they what the God-Machine needs next.

THE HATCHING 
A group of people watching the Statue of Liberty from station on Canal Street at that moment. He has 71 minutes 

Liberty State Park see hundreds of creatures literally hatch out of of usable time, and has no way to find the characters on his 
the statue, followed by a vast burst of energy that incinerates an own. He uses his Hallucination Numen to cause mass hysteria, 
area more than 2,500 miles across. Immediately afterwards, these knowing that it will attract attention. If the characters pay at-
characters all find themselves waking up the day of the blast. tention to the news during the day, they’ll learn about riots in 

that area of Manhattan and people raving about otherworldly 

Infrastructure creatures and lights in the sky. If they get to that subway station 
between 11:01 A.M. and 12:12 P.M., Kalka can find them with 

One evening around 9:00 P.M., the characters are all at Fate Sense. He appears there every day at the same time, and 
Liberty State Park in Jersey City, New Jersey. This park is only can help explain the situation to the characters if they need 
a few hundred yards from the Statue of Liberty, and has an further exposition. If your players just run with the plot and 
excellent view of the statue. The characters are all enjoying don’t seem to need the help, though, don’t bother with Kalka. 
the evening when they hear a strange crunching and crackling The Truth: The Statue of Liberty itself acts as concealment 
sound and watch the Statue of Liberty break apart like the Infrastructure, but the larger issue is the destruction and the 
egg of some vast insect. Immediately after, fragments of the time regression. The characters are part of a larger elimination 
statue fall into New York Harbor, a bright glow shines out Infrastructure, designed to destroy the creatures and bleed off the 
from the cracks in the statue, and hundreds of large, glowing energy they’re producing. If they fail, the explosion is a backup. 
insect-like creatures begin fleeing the interior of the statue. 
At this point, the glow coming from the statue intensifies, 
blinding anyone who looks at it. A few instants afterwards, Interchangeable Parts
both Jersey City and Manhattan catch fire. Everyone therein The only requirement for this Tale is that all of the 
dies burning, the characters included. characters be together in Liberty Park at 9:00 P.M. when the 

The next moment, all of the characters are where they Statue of Liberty hatches. The characters need not know one 
were when they woke up the day they watched the statue another, and can easily make contact with each other in one 
hatch. The characters all have full memories of what hap- of the later versions of this time loop.
pened during this day. Unless the characters stop it this Although this Tale is cosmic in scope because of its fo-
time, the Statue of Liberty cracks open again, the devastation cus on time regression, otherworldly monsters, and so on, 
worsens, and they are again thrown back in time. The Hatching makes for a good starting Tale because the 

The first time this happens, take note of where the charac- characters can have all the time they need to get to know 
ters are at 11:01 A.M. The angel Kalka steps out of a subway one another. The process for meeting each other, realizing 

226 
Tales of the God machine



that all of the other characters are reliving the day as well, covered the statue’s entire interior surface with sigils and 
looking into the problem, and solving it could easily take 15 mechanisms when the statue was restored in 1933. These 
tries, and if the characters know that on the 15th try they’ll devices use psychic energy directed at the statue to power 
run out of time, then tension builds nicely. various esoteric endeavors, including stabilizing several an-

But even if each try is a single chapter, that’s still 15 gels so that they can remain on Earth — the Statue itself is a 
chapters — that’s a long story, and it takes place on the same form of Infrastructure. Once the statue becomes unstable, 
“day.” Have a look at movies like Run Lola Run and Groundhog the God-Machine can no longer send angels to Earth, nor 
Day, as well as the short-lived television show Tru Calling, for can it maintain the ones that are already there (Kalka is the 
a look at how a character can change things while reliving the exception, since Kalka exists outside of time anyway). 
same day. Apply that to the characters — yes, they have to save None of these sigils are visible from outside the statue or 
the world, but do they have time to check lottery results? Do from any of the areas accessible to tourists. However, characters 
they want to find crimes or fatal accidents in the city and stop who gain access to the inner surface of the statue’s copper 
them? Is 14 tries enough to become experts on the events of skin see huge and complex circuits in the shape of esoteric 
that day, so that they can stop the Hatching from occurring? sigils. These circuits coruscate with yellow and red glowing 
Let the players have a few sessions to explore their abilities energies and cover most of the inner surface of the statue. If 
and to meet and interact before turning up the stress. the characters have a chance to talk with anyone who works in 

One question the characters might seek to answer is: why or around the statue, the people the characters talk to know 
them? It might be that they were all close enough to the statue nothing of these sigils. Also, photographs of the interior of the 
during the initial explosion (but still survived) that they were statue’s bronze skin do not show them. The characters can only 
caught in the God-Machine’s loop. Or, the God-Machine see the sigils because of their experience with the time loop.
might think they can fix the problem, meaning that each Although the sigils collect large amounts of energy, most of 
character should have a specific Skill or Merit that will be it is not going to its intended destinations. Instead, the energies 
useful to solve the problem. If you are running The Hatching generated by this site attracted dangerous parasites. These parasites 
after playing through other Tales, it might just be that the have been growing for several decades. When this tale begins, the 
characters have had enough exposure to the God-Machine parasites hatch and destabilize the statue’s energy flows. These 
that it considers them part of its programming (which should energy flows rebound catastrophically, causing a huge explosion. 
keep the characters up nights, if they figure it out). The God-Machine responds to the explosion by creating 

a series of time loops. Over the course of 15 time loops, the 

Blueprints God-Machine gradually alters the past and present so that it 
can dissipate the energy of the explosion in another location 

The cycle of the world’s destruction and then resetting itself and provide a convenient cover for it. All of the characters 
back a day continues for 15 cycles. After each change, the world notice that time has changed in various small ways after the 
is visibly different in small ways. Junk food packaging and the end of each time loop, and that the time loops make a nuclear 
lineup of TV shows change from one time loop to the next. Also, attack by Pakistan against India increasingly likely. 
for the last 10 time loops, news reports about a possible plot by The only way to end the time loop without the destruction 
Pakistani terrorists to set off a nuclear weapon in India become of Mumbai is to go inside the Statue of Liberty at least several 
increasingly widespread and credible. Such reports first appear in hours before it splits open. The statue’s public areas look 
a few tabloids, but by the 12th time loop they are found on all of perfectly normal, but the lower portion of the statue, next 
the major new stations and in major newspapers. On the 15th to the skin, is filled with a single, throbbing egg case that is 
time loop a large nuclear explosion destroys most of Mumbai and the size of a tractor trailer. This egg case and the hundreds of 
the Statue of Liberty does not explode. However, the statue cracks creatures it contains are all invisible to ordinary humans, but 
and any characters who are present see strange glowing creatures anyone who has become aware of the time loop is automati-
crawl out of it and fly up into the sky. The attack on Mumbai also cally able to see it, as is anyone the characters show the egg to. 
makes nuclear war between India and Pakistan almost inevitable. Attacking the sigils causes an uncontrolled release of 

The characters are the only people who remember the energy which incinerates the characters, the eggs, and the 
time loop or the way that events have changed from one to statue, but the destruction is limited to Liberty Island and 
the next. Regardless of how far the characters are from the the time loop ends. Destroying the egg case prevents it from 
explosion, some factor means that they remain stuck in the hatching without any other destruction. However, doing so 
time loop until they either prevent the explosion or Mumbai requires the use of a larger weapon like explosives, a pump 
is destroyed. The characters can only prevent the destruction action shotgun, a chainsaw, or several people with fire axes. 
of Mumbai by stopping the Statue from exploding. If the Storyteller wishes, cracking open the egg may free some 

of the creatures and allow them to attack.
Linchpins

The two primary Linchpins in this tale are the Statue of Methods
Liberty and the time loops. Because it is a powerful focus Academics: Characters who make successful Intelligence 
of belief and emotional energy, agents of the God-Machine + Academics rolls when researching the Statue of Liberty 

227 
The Hatching



learn that National Park Service personnel discovered serious a day at a time before everything burns and resets. The ability 
cracks in the statue on August 6, 1945, the day of the nuclear to work short cons might be useful. 
attack on Hiroshima. Close Quarters Combat (see p. 61): A fight scene in the 

Science: A successful Intelligence + Science roll while tight stairways of the statue would be dramatic and deadly 
inside the statue allows the characters to understand that the — hopefully a character has the expertise for it.
huge egg casing inside the statue is connected to the electrical 
sigils by filaments of living tissue and that the egg case draws Escalation
power from these sigils. 

Larceny: Characters who wish to break into the statue or The Statue of Liberty hatching might only be the first of 
into the portions of the statue that are off limits to the general several these events. Characters who travel widely before the 
public must make a successful Dexterity + Larceny roll at -2. blast and are at different places in the world when the blast 

Stealth: Characters must make a successful Wits + Stealth occurs could see locations like the Eiffel Tower, the Burj 
roll to hide within the statue itself after it is closed to the Khalifa in Dubai (currently the world’s tallest building), and 
public at 5:00 P.M. other well-known structures hatch and explode in response 

Persuasion: Convincing someone working at the statue to the Statue of Liberty exploding. After the characters finish 
that something strange and dangerous is going on and that saving the Statue of Liberty, they will need to save the other 
this person should allow the characters to accompany them to structures before they hatch. 
investigate this problem requires a Presence + Persuasion roll. To connect this Tale with others, consider the possibil-

Subterfuge: A character can convince someone working ity that the parasites might be nightmare creatures (Urban 
at the statue that the character is an FBI agent or some other Wandering, p. 235) that the characters need to trace back 
important official by making a successful Manipulation + to their source. Or, perhaps in solving the problem, the char-
Subterfuge roll. acters become unstuck from time and space, finally settling 

Fast-Talking (p. 50): The characters have limited time to somewhere with similar amounts of devastation (What Is It 
do their research and come up with a plan — they only have Good For, p. 233). 

A JOURNEY INTO TIME 
The characters see an online video about how the world The video then says that characters should also construct 

will soon end. This video is a call for help and allows the an electromagnet around a closed doorway. When the char-
characters to create a mechanism that allows them to travel acters turn on both the light and the magnet, opening the 
back to 1901 to destroy the device that will end the world. door reveals a corridor several hundred yards long. The video 

states that this corridor allows travel through time and space, 

Infrastructure ending somewhere in Paris at 5:11 P.M. on February 16, 
1901. The video also provides the addresses of Dr. Girard’s 

The aforementioned video is only 10 minutes long. It laboratory and home.
starts with a statement “If anyone is seeing this, I have failed. In The Truth: Like Marco Singe, Dr. Girard’s employers 
1901, I invented a device that will soon end the world. The auroras tried to use the God-Machine as a path to godhood. Unlike 
are only the first sign. A version of this device can also save the Singe, they managed to succeed, after a fashion. The device 
world, by allowing someone to return to the first minutes in which that Girard invented does allow the users to manipulate time 
the device was turned on. You must destroy both the original version much like the God-Machine does, but, unfortunately, the 
of this device and my laboratory notebook. device also alters the nature of causality. The result is that 

If my employers never learn of this device, they cannot use it the God-Machine can’t get a bead on what is happening, 
to end the world. They believe the mechanism we used to create it and therefore cannot simply send an angel to fix it. When 
will give them the power to control time and space. In reality, it the characters see the video, though, they create a timeline 
allows an inhuman force to collapse all of time into a single endless in which they do correct the problem, which gives the God-
instant. I created the central component to this device by accident. Machine a way to send an angel to help them. 
If all records of how to create it are destroyed, the machine that now 
threatens to end time will never have been built. If time has already 
begun to decay, the area illuminated by the lamp will remain safe.” Interchangeable Parts

The video describes how to create a complex gas-discharge Characters can begin in any city that has access to the inter-
lamp like a neon light, containing a precise mixture of seven dif- net, chemistry laboratories, and lab supply companies. The first 
ferent gases — oxygen, neon, xenon, argon, nitrogen, carbon diox- evidence the characters have that anything unusual is happening 
ide, and helium. Powered by a lithium battery like those used in are the brilliant, royal blue auroras that appear in skies all across 
cameras or cell phones, the small light produces a royal blue glow. the world, including above places too close to the equator to 

228 
Tales of the God machine



normally experience them. Then, at least one of the characters far past to the distant future, creating a timeless state where 
attempts to download a music video from a video-sharing site, it can operate without the necessity of any intermediaries. In 
and instead downloads the video described above. this timeless state, cause and effect cease to have any meaning, 

At least one of the characters needs to be an electronics as every event in the world occurs in one infinite instant. The 
or chemistry professional or hobbyist who is comfortable blue light protects people from this timeless reality, creating 
creating a custom-made gas-discharge lamp. The characters a bubble of linear time six yards in diameter. However, every-
also need to be people willing to consider acting on the advice thing beyond this radius remains a confusing whirl. 
of downloaded internet videos about time travel. Several decades after creating the blue light, Dr. Girard 

realized how dangerous his superiors’ plans were. He at-
Blueprints tempted to warn them, but none of them believed him. To 

protect himself, he pretended to rethink his objections. The 
If the characters do nothing, the auroras grow increasingly time-destroying mechanism was completed in 1932. It has 

bright and everyone begins catching brief glimpses of phan- been gradually accumulating power since that time. As the 
tom figures. Belief in ghosts soars across the world. These growing auroras reveal, it is beginning to activate. For more 
“ghosts” become increasingly solid as the barriers between about Dr. Girard, see p. 241.
one time and another break down over the course of several Once the characters leave the time corridor, they find 
weeks (the figures are not ghosts, but people bleeding through themselves walking out the door of a warehouse in Paris in 
from other times). In small areas, time begins to spontane- the early evening on February 16, 1901. They are two miles 
ously reverse itself for a few seconds. A shattered vase might from Dr. Girard’s laboratory, which is on the other side of 
reassemble and rise off the floor to sit intact upon a table. the Seine from the warehouse and in a far nicer portion of 
Eventually, the structure of linear time completely dissolves. town. To succeed, the characters must steal or destroy both 

The device that caused this enables the God-Machine to the original blue light and Dr. Girard’s notes. Without these 
collapse time, allowing it to entirely reformat reality from the notes he will not be able to successfully recreate the light. 

229 
A Journey Into Time



Alternately, the characters could kill Dr. Girard and destroy could invite dangerous attention. The townhouse’s first-floor 
his work or convince Dr. Girard of the dangers his light poses windows have electrified bars and he kept a revolver in his 
and convince him to destroy it or give it to them. bedside table. (If the Storyteller wishes the good doctor to have 

To return to the present, the characters turn on their more rarefied security — perhaps a converted clockwork servitor 
light and shine it at the door to the warehouse where they like the ones found on p. 255 — that’s certainly appropriate.)
arrived in the past. If the characters succeed, the light they 
built vanishes the instant they return to the present, since Methods
the video describing it was never made. All notes they made 
about it also vanish and the auroras never occurred. The only Academics: Hopefully the characters have someone well 
records of any of these events are the characters’ memories, versed enough in history that they can avoid potentially-
along with any items they brought from 1901. dangerous anachronisms. The Storyteller should occasionally 

ask for a Wits + Academics roll to avoid some egregious error.

Linchpins Crafts: A subtle character could use Dexterity + Crafts to 
first create a small, natural-looking leak in the original blue 

The most important linchpin is the blue light invented light, letting all of the gases out. Preventing Dr. Girard from 
by Dr. Henri Girard in 1901. Working, as he did, with a cult recreating it would involve altering his notes (see below). 
dedicated to understanding and subverting the God-Machine, Larceny: Getting through the electrified bars requires a 
he had access to science unknown to the rest of humanity. In Dexterity + Larceny roll with a -3 penalty. Failure not only 
early 1901, Dr. Girard was experimenting with the esoteric leaves the bars intact, but inflicts five points of bashing dam-
properties of gas-discharge lamps using many hundreds of age and alerts any guards. 
different gas mixtures when he noticed that this particular Stealth: Assuming the characters can get into Girard’s 
mixture of gases had unusual properties. home, moving undetected requires Dexterity + Stealth rolls…

In addition to allowing characters to travel back to 1901, and remember, the group is only as stealthy as the least 
it also causes objects within a few feet of it to briefly freeze in stealthy member.
time for a second or two after the light is turned on. When Expression: If the characters can get hold of Dr. Girard’s 
Dr. Girard first turned on the light, he saw a pencil falling notebook, they can, potentially, alter it. This assumes a 
off a shelf next to the light freeze in midair for two seconds. grounding in Science (someone needs to tell the forger what 
He then made a note of which gas mixture and electrode to write, which involves a roll of Intelligence + Science). The 
design he used and began to research this light further. Dr. roll for the forgery itself is Dexterity + Expression (extended 
Girard was the only researcher performing these experiments. action, each roll equals one minute, eight successes required). 
Excited by his discovery, he tested this light for eight days If successful, the character can alter the formula so that it has 
before turning his research over to his superiors. no effect, which hopefully puts Girard off the track.

In 1901, he worked in a laboratory located on the second Intimidation: A menacing character could abduct or cor-
floor of a building used by scientists and engineers who were ner Dr. Girard and use Presence + Intimidation to threaten 
all recruited by a senior agent of the cult named Martin him into giving the character his notes on the blue light.
Delrio. He recruited these individuals to perform various Language (French) (p. 45): Knowing French is exceed-
types of advanced research. The building had a single armed ingly handy for getting around Paris in 1901. Although many 
guard at the door. Dr. Girard’s laboratory contained pres- educated people, including Dr. Girard, speak English, most 
surized tanks of many gases, as well as more than a dozen people do not.
oddly-designed “neon light” tubes. The original blue light was Sleight of Hand (see p. 49): Characters who have some 
stored in the laboratory, but Dr. Girard took his notes home knowledge of stage magic or similar methods can more easily 
with him every night. Dr. Girard left for home that night at steal Dr. Girard’s notebook from his satchel.
7:00 P.M. and came to work at 9:00 A.M.

The building’s first floor contained offices, while the Escalation
second floor contained four laboratories. One was empty, 
while the other two contain experiments involving other God- If the characters obtained Dr. Girard’s original notes or 
Machine-related phenomena (if you have already completed the original blue light, they can use or build a light to return 
other Tales, you might consider having these labs contain to 1901. Every trip they take to 1901 lets them out on the 
remnants of things the characters have encountered — is the same night five minutes later than the last time they visited. 
cult following their future exploits somehow?). This building Careless characters could meet themselves, which could cause 
and the portion of the city it is in are quite wealthy and have vast amounts of confusion. 
electric lights both on the streets and inside the building. Characters could begin altering history by traveling repeat-

Dr. Girard lived half a mile from his laboratory in a small, edly to 1901 and introducing new technologies or assassinat-
but elegant, two-story townhouse also fitted with electricity. ing Hitler or Stalin while they were young men. Although 
He lived alone except for two servants who left shortly after minor changes in time go undetected, God-Machine opera-
he returned home. He kept his notebook in his study. His tives notice significant changes in the timeline and attempt 
employer warned Dr. Girard that working on these projects to locate and eliminate the characters. 

230 
Tales of the God machine



Time travel is, as any fan of science fiction knows, tricky Urban Wandering (p. 235), This Is Hell (p. 231), or Wake 
to get right without creating all kinds of logistical problems. the Dead (p. 214). On a smaller scale, just being familiar with 
Maybe the characters do destabilize things — that kind of the nuances of time travel might lead the characters to Do-
instability could lead into any number of Tales, including Over (p.199) or make them ideal to track The Key (p. 208). 

THIS IS HELL 
Let me offer you a choice. Free will, baby, that’s what this 

is all about. Open a door, let me through, I can hand you the Blueprints
keys to Heaven or Hell, and you can decide which side wins In this chronicle, the God-Machine wants nothing less 
all of reality. You just have to choose. than Heaven on Earth — its version of Heaven, anyway. It 

wants a clean, cold, orderly place devoid of the nuisance of 

Infrastructure free will and perfectly patterned and symmetrical. The world 
should have a place for everything, and have everything in 

Lines are being drawn in the sand all across creation. its place. 
Monsters, occultists, spiritualists, and mediums see more The problem is, only free will can strip humanity of free 
activity out of the once-silent heavens. The number of posses- will. For many of the same esoteric reasons that the God-
sions skyrockets and exorcists are being run ragged trying to Machine needs to build Infrastructure before it can easily 
keep up. Some of the scholarly types have started collecting affect the world, humanity, or some representative thereof, 
clippings and accounts of angel sightings. The religiously af- will have to accept the God-Machine’s version of Heaven in 
filiated are ticking off signs of their version of the apocalypse order to renounce free will. 
the way some people play drinking games. So the God-Machine has a plan: Run the Earth into the 

And the characters are right in the middle of it, having ground. Hate and war and sexism and venereal disease and 
dreams of war and conflict, and dreams of blood and sex child abuse and all the evil we pile on top of each other help 
and sweet, joyful suffering. They’re having dreams of Heaven the God-Machine edge us closer and closer to giving in, giving 
and Hell and someone’s whispering to them, begging them over, and breaking down. 
to take sides. But the God-Machine isn’t the only game in town. In 

The Truth: In this Tale, the God-Machine is trying to shift some tiny subsection of the supernatural world live what 
the world into a heretofore-unknown form of Infrastructure. some people mistakenly call demons. Maybe they are de-
If it needs a title, call it “pure” Infrastructure. If the God- mons, by some definitions, but they think of themselves as 
Machine succeeds, it won’t have restrictions on where and “Celebrants.” These entities do inhabit a space the likes of 
when it can send its angels. which Dante and Virgil would describe as Hell. Their motiva-

tions are chaos and creation for their own sakes. They revel 
Interchangeable Parts in pain as well as pleasure, unfettered by smaller concepts 

Characters in this chronicle shouldn’t all be in the dark like hate and mortality. They are the greatest fans of free will 

about the supernatural. Having a little insight into the dark 
of the night is ideal for most of the characters. Either they’re 
occult researchers, professional exorcists, kin to a pack of 
werewolves, or psychically attuned to secrets. If you have Demons?
access to any of the monster games for the Chronicles of Longtime readers and players of other Chronicles 
Darkness (Vampire: The Requiem, Mage: The Awakening, of Darkness games might wonder if the 
Geist: The Sin-Eaters and so on), you might consider running Celebrants bear any relation to the inhabitants of 
this Tale for a group of supernatural characters. Pandemonium (in Mage: The Awakening) or 

Or, This is Hell might be the perfect Tale to use to close the demons that inhabit the Lower Depths (and are 
out a God-Machine chronicle. The characters are still mortal, described in Inferno). 
but they have seen enough during their time chasing down The answer is: If you have those books and want 
the God-Machine that they cannot be considered “normal” to draw those parallels, sure. If not, then the 
anymore.  Celebrants are exactly what we’re describing: 

These are characters specially chosen for a destiny unlike otherworldly entities that resonate with freedom, 
any other. Maybe it’s in their blood, in their genes, or just narcissism, and selfishness. For purposes of this 
unknowable happenstance, but the characters will become story, their pedigree doesn’t matter much.
champions of humanity during the course of the chronicle. 

231 
This Is Hell



and, in their own way, admire humanity as a result. As the Weaponry: It appears, with blinding radiance. It’s 
God-Machine hunkers down to force humanity to give up everything the scriptures describe, awesome and terrible 
their greatest gift, the Celebrants of Hell are rising to offer and beautiful and heartbreaking. You’re between it and the 
humanity another choice. person it must kill, but it seems to be offering you a choice. 

Pick up the sword it lays at your feet, or step out of the way. 

Linchpins Either roll Dexterity + Weaponry to defend yourself, or let 
the angel destroy its target. 

Servants of the God-Machine are angels. Their touch, Expression: Your friends are tired, terrified, and over-
and therefore the touch of the God-Machine, is cold and whelmed. They’ve about given up. You know that all of you 
passionless. The God-Machine demands order and equality will need renewed energy to get through the coming day — the 
to such a point as to be indiscriminate and even cruel. The day of destiny. Roll Presence + Expression to compose the 
angels seek to create a clinical equality for all people. Their words they’ll need to hear to get through.
actions are without compassion. The God-Machine and its Persuasion: You want to open the door to Heaven. Yes, 
angels see only in terms of right and wrong, ignoring all other it will be passionless, but suffering will end, and perhaps 
gradients. Order, chaos, and anything short of perfection humanity can finally ascend. Your companions, however, 
need not exist. When they kill, it’s quick and clinical. No are leaning more toward Hell, and you know that’s a sucker’s 
one suffers when the angels act, but that’s largely because no bet. Roll Presence + Persuasion to begin convincing them.
one feels anything when the angels act. Striking Looks (p. 54): When you’re the most beautiful 

The Celebrants of Hell are wet and messy. They’re no thing on the block, you’re a walking temptation — don’t think 
more afraid of gore and the beauty of “sin” than you are afraid the Celebrants don’t notice.
of air. They leave chaos in their wake and, yes, suffering as Iron Will (p. 51): There’s Heaven’s plan, there’s Hell’s 
well. They herald pain and with it, a deeper understanding plan, and then there’s your plan. Angels, demons, and even 
of self. That understanding may bring agony; that’s what hap- the God-Machine might know what dance steps you’re sup-
pens with knowledge, but for many it’s completely worth it. posed to take, but there’s no force in the universe that’s going 
To the Celebrant, the sublime is not a cold, unfeeling light, to make you perform like a monkey. 
but the line between pain and pleasure. Ecstasy is being lost 
in sensation. Where the angels bring destruction to the imper-
fect, these demons offer horror with the intent to enlighten. Escalation

The God-Machine is taking a risk by sending angels out At the climax of this chronicle, the world — the universe — 
to take overt action in the world. Any angel might be use- will be changed forever. It comes down to choice, to free will, 
ful to illustrate the point, but no matter which angels the no matter how manipulated and abused. Choose between 
characters encounter, they seem detached, removed from the the sympathetic, sensual, and violent demons or the cold, 
situation. This is because the God-Machine does not have hard, compassionless angels. Either side is willing to harm 
proper Infrastructure in place to send angels to act in its stead. innocents to reach their own ends. 

Choose a world of order with no suffering, no sensation, 

Methods and no free will or a world of chaos where nothing is perma-
nent and sensation is all, but the highs and lows of suffering 

Investigation: The possessing “demon,” or whatever it and pleasure are off the scales.
is, seems to be teasing you. It possesses a body, causes some There’s a third possible option, though. When in posses-
chaos, leaves you a cryptic message, and transfers to a new sion of the keys to Heaven and Hell, maybe the characters lock 
victim. Roll Intelligence + Investigation to anticipate its next both doors. Maybe they isolate the Earth and humanity from 
possession and cut it off at the pass. interference from either side. For the first time, humanity is 

Occult: The angel spoke to you. It told you about the totally on its own for good or for ill; it is entirely in control 
keys, how the one holding the keys could choose which door of its own destiny. What does that mean for the world at 
to lock and which to open. How the keys were destined for a large? Maybe mind- and emotion-controlling powers just 
pure hand and that pure soul alone could lock away the suf- don’t work on people anymore, and they can recognize the 
fering of Hell and open the door to Heaven on Earth. What it supernatural for what it is. Maybe the world stays much the 
didn’t tell you was how to identify the keys. Roll Intelligence same, except the God-Machine no longer has any influence 
+ Occult to finish translating the book the Celebrant gave in it (but neither do the Celebrants). Is that, overall, a good 
you to find the “keys to the doors.” thing? Or did the God-Machine fulfill some purpose that the 

Larceny: “Let me know you, and show you just a taste characters never really understood? 
of the experiences I offer you. The gifts I would give you,” This Tale makes a good end point for a God-Machine 
the Celebrant says. Say yes, or roll Dexterity + Larceny to chronicle, but if you want somewhere to go when it ends, 
escape your bindings rather than discover and endure the What Is It Good For (p. 233), A Journey Into Time (p. 228), 
“pleasures” of Hell. and Sister City (p. 201) are good choices.  

232 
Tales of the God machine



WHAT IS IT GOOD FOR
All war is hell, and when you’re serving in an active and maybe a Peace Corps relief worker all caught up in the 

combat zone, time stretches and contorts to make your stay wheels of the God-Machine. 
in Hell long and tortuous. Only, that all isn’t supposed to be 
literal. Massive shelling in this ancient desert has uncovered Blueprints
something that man wasn’t meant to see, and since then, 
you’ve seen the true meaning of war. The God-Machine has passed no moral judgment on the 

characters, no matter what they might surmise by their situ-

Infrastructure ation. Rather, mystical pathways connect between places of 
great violence and bloodshed. War, to the God-Machine, is 

Your chaplain thinks everyone died when that shell hit a place, and the flag moves from parts of that place to others 
and uncovered an artifact, the Flag of Elam. That’s how he without the normal constraints of space and time.
explains what’s going on. Well, when he can stop crying long The characters, of course, may never fully understand that 
enough to speak. He isn’t taking it well. But you’re elite, you detail. What they do know is that they are moving, through 
were trained to endure all sorts of mental anguish, and maybe the artifact, from one war to another. They don’t need to 
that’s why you and your team can observe all of this without move in any chronology or with certain lessons or stories 
going completely Section 8. in mind. Past, present, and even potential future wars are 

One minute you’re fighting insurgents in what was once fair game. The Flag is simply doing what it does, and the 
the cradle of civilization. Then a bomb went off, probably characters are caught in the tailwind. 
fired off by your side accidentally. When the sand and debris If there is a way out, it isn’t death. Characters that die in 
settled, everyone was looking at an ancient, tattered flag. one war find themselves alive again the next time the char-
It’s got no words on it, and its markings have faded over the acters move to a new war. They remember their deaths in 
centuries. It’s just this big, terrible thing and over it hovers excruciating detail. Each time a character dies in war, though, 
what you can only describe as the angel of death. It looks he forgets some part of his original life and takes on false 
different for each of you, but you know what it is. You can memories from the war in which he died. A Storyteller may 
feel in your bones what it means. reflect this by removing one Skill Specialty from a character 

The next second, you’re wearing Roman armor and sheet and replacing it with something appropriate to the 
weaponry, and are in what’s probably Germany or Ireland. war in question. So a modern soldier might lose his Sniper 
You’re covered in blood, and you and the other soldiers are all Firearms Specialty, and have it replaced with a Weaponry 
looking at this artifact when your praetor demands you fight Specialty in Swords to reflect his new memory as a centurion. 
on. Keep killing the barbarians! That’s what you’re here for. Dying is also a breaking point (p. 73), no matter how 

After the battle, you find the rest of your team. They’re often it happens. 
confused, maybe scared, but are accepting what they see. 
The angel, or the flag, has moved you back in time to this Linchpins
ancient war campaign to fight and fight. You don’t know if 
you’re ever getting out or getting home, but you kind of felt They characters were never meant to look at the Flag of 
that way while fighting the insurgents anyway. Elam directly, any more than they were ever meant to see the 

The Truth: The God-Machine didn’t do this to the char- angel Triage. The characters were simply in the wrong place 
acters deliberately. The flag that the soldiers uncovered is a at the wrong time. 
Linchpin, a kind of placeholder that the God-Machine uses Triage appears after the characters have shifted in time 
to mark active combat sites all throughout history. Usually once. The angel isn’t here to save them, though, or even to 
no one notices it, but the characters uncovered it, and since correct the problem. It’s here to assess whether it’s worth 
they aren’t able to control it they’re sliding through time, stop- the God-Machine’s time to reverse what happened (return-
ping at various battles. This isn’t part of any Infrastructure ing the characters to the moment that they discovered the 
necessarily, which is why the God-Machine hasn’t stopped flag), or just let the characters cycle through time until they 
it. It’s just a glitch, albeit a potentially messy one. return to the point naturally. Of course, since they’re shift-

ing randomly, they have no guarantee that they’ll ever return 

Interchangeable Parts to their own time (but spaced over an infinite number of 
shifts, it’s likely). 

Characters might be members of the military, of course, Triage does not travel alone. The creatures in service to 
an elite team of Navy SEALs or Army Rangers, for example. the angel appear as men, though their true forms are man-
They might just be some foot soldiers, a translator, an embed- sized snakes with the heads of lions that have milky, blind 
ded reporter, a private contractor with too much free time, eyes. These Blind Serpents hide among the events of war and 

233 
What Is It Good For



history to assure nothing upsets the destiny of the moment in got to be a reason for all of this. Roll Intelligence + Politics 
time. For example, if the characters attempt to end a conflict to puzzle through possible unifying political motivations 
early, the Blind Serpents emerge to stop them. behind these conflicts.

The characters have two methods to escape from their Survival: The locals, the real combatants in this conflict, 
predicament. If they can find and take control of the Flag seem at home or at least equipped for the jungle’s sweltering 
of Elam, they can direct the flow of time, and thus return to heat. You and your team are not so fortunate. Roll Stamina 
their true point in history. Once they have the flag, directing + Survival to endure the assault nature itself seems to be 
time isn’t especially hard (a Resolve + Academics roll, 10 suc- waging against you. 
cesses required, each roll equals one turn, teamwork rules are Weaponry: You’ve been trained in hand-to-hand combat, 
allowed and recommended). Obtaining the flag, though, is sure, but really you’re used to firefights. Here, you don’t have 
a Herculean task. It is always located in enemy territory (no access to guns, and your enemies are much better trained 
matter which side of the conflict the characters come down with swords than you. Roll Wits + Weaponry to analyze 
on, the other side has the flag), it is always well guarded, and how your enemies fight and try and offset the penalty you’d 
it is always hidden. Plus, the Blind Serpents may well work otherwise suffer. 
to keep the characters away. Animal Ken: Mounted combat. Well, that’s unexpected. 

The other method is to convince Triage to help them. You’ve got a rough idea of how a horse works, anyway, and 
This requires use of the Social Maneuvering system (p. 81). that’s probably enough to be able to ride with the rest of the 
The characters need to open six Doors to get Triage to act on cavalry, right? Roll Presence + Animal Ken to keep the horse 
their behalf, and he cannot be forced. The characters need on your side during combat.
to convince him that it’s more trouble for the God-Machine Intimidation: The captured soldier from the other side of 
to let them slide through time than to speed up the process. the lines knows where the flag is…but he’s only going to talk 

if you convince him it’s worth his while, or that you’ll kill him 

Methods (or worse) if he doesn’t. Roll Strength + Intimidation to scare 
him into talking painfully, or Manipulation + Intimidation 

Academics: You become aware again right in the middle to do it by intimation. Torture, by the way, is almost always 
of a soggy, sloppy, mud-covered combat zone. It seems like a breaking point. 
everyone is just shooting at everyone. Total chaos. Roll Wits + Marksmanship (p. 63): Sometimes the best, fastest way 
Academics to remember enough from history class to identify to end a war is to find the right warmonger and put a bullet 
whose side you’re on. in his forehead from a nice, safe distance. Harsh but true.

Politics: There’s got to be a pattern, right? To the conflicts, Language (p. 45): The root of most conflict is misunder-
the wars, the battles you’ve been forced to experience? There’s standing, so knowing how to communicate is a plus. Since 

234 
Tales of the God machine



you might shift into times in which English doesn’t even If they claim the flag, though, they’re masters of their own 
exist yet, becoming a polyglot quickly might save your life. destiny. They might be able to get back to the moment when 

they left, but what if the flag deposits them in a despotic na-

Escalation tion on the verge of a massacre (Proposition 279, p. 223)? 
Maybe their experiences with death make them ideal ghost 

The characters might be able to convince Triage to return whisperers, ready to sell their services to a beleaguered region 
them to their rightful place, in which case they might not (Ghost Machine, p. 207). Or, perhaps their travels through 
even remember that anything happened (or, if you want to space lead them to even stranger vistas (Urban Wandering, 
have a tragic story, they might all die in combat and wish p. 235).   
they could shift in time again, just before their lights go out). 

URBAN WANDERING 
The ability to “citywalk,” traveling from one urban center 

to another without crossing the distance between them, is Interchangeable Parts
as old as the cities themselves. The knowledge of how to do The characters can be anyone living in any city in the 
it has always been kept secret. But now, as the number of world, but they should all be people who have lived in at 
people with that knowledge increases, some of these people least three or four different cities. They might be members 
accidentally find their way to a mist-covered realm inhabited of some cult or society that has learned how to citywalk, or 
by nightmare creatures…who follow the citywalkers back. they might be people that have figured it out for themselves. 

Infrastructure Blueprints
Citywalking has been possible for centuries, but the Within a week or two, dozens of people have learned to 

knowledge was proprietary. Individuals could work out how reliably walk or drive between cities. Soon after this, they 
to do it with practice and the right texts, and various secret begin telling others about it, in person, in blog posts, and 
societies taught the ability to their most trusted members. But even in online videos, where people show off this ability. 
now, someone’s leaked the secret — and people are finding Most people don’t believe it, of course, and lack the spiritual 
out exactly why it was never widespread. fortitude to try it, but the ability spreads. 

Individuals all across the world begin accidentally walking Many of these new citywalkers, though, don’t possess the 
from one city to another without passing through the space skill to do it safely. They wind up in the nightmare realm, 
in between. At first only a few people can do this, but anyone and lead the hideous creatures therein back. 
can learn this ability if they are shown or hear a detailed The number of violent murders increases and a growing 
description of the method. People think about a city they number of people report catching brief glimpses various 
previously lived in while walking or driving, and begin seeing strange and horrific creatures after dark. These creatures are 
locations that look like that other city. Sometime between nocturnal monsters that look like distorted people between 
five and 30 minutes later, the person finds themselves in two and 10 feet tall. All of them are good at hiding and most 
this other city, even if it is many thousands of miles away or prey upon humans. Going out after dark becomes increas-
across an ocean. In time, people can learn to travel to any ingly dangerous. 
city they have ever visited or even places that they have seen If nothing is done, a growing number of monsters invade 
clearly in videos or documentaries (TV dramas and movies the world, and eventually the connections between these 
rarely provide accurate views of cities and so are not useful). nightmare worlds and the human world become so strong 

The Truth: The ability to citywalk is a side effect of the that large areas of the world are either transformed into por-
logical Infrastructure built into cities in general. The very tions of the nightmare realm or become a haphazard mixture 
concept of a “city” carries with it a certain semantic and of the normal world and the nightmare realm.
conceptual weight, and by following that concept, a person 
learns to citywalk. Why is it becoming more commonplace 
now? Possibly because the population density in cities is get- Linchpins
ting higher; if cities have spiritual “weight,” some of them While the characters are citywalking, all of them have the 
are getting heavy enough that even untrained people can same vision. A humanoid figure with wings made of mercury 
sense that weight. The God-Machine isn’t responding to this appears before them. It shows them, reflected in its wings, 
issue immediately since it’s just piggybacking on an existing the nightmare realm, and tells them that the creatures are 
Infrastructure, but the nightmare creatures following hapless hungry. Unless they are prevented from accessing Earth once 
citywalkers home need to be addressed. and for all, they will overrun the human race. 

235 
Urban Wandering



Citywalker  
(••• Supernatural Merit)

Prerequisite: Streetwise ••, mortal (non-supernatural)
Effect: The character has learned the secrets of citywalking. When in a city with a population of at least a 
quarter million, the character can start walking down a street or sidewalk and concentrate on a different city. 
The character must know his destination city fairly well. The player rolls Resolve + Streetwise to citywalk. 
Roll Results
Dramatic Failure: The character reaches the nightmare realm, and is probably food for the inhabitants. If 
nothing else, he’ll likely lead the monsters right back to his home city. 
Failure: The character cannot citywalk to the desired destination; the image just isn’t coming in clearly. Any 
further citywalking attempts that day suffer a -3 penalty. These restrictions fade once the character sleeps for 
eight hours.
Success: The character emerges in the destination city. 
Exceptional Success: The character emerges in the destination city, and the nightmare creatures do not 
notice him. Apply a +1 to the character’s next attempt to citywalk. 
Suggested Modifiers

Situation Modifier
Character has never been to the destination city before -5
Character has only visited the destination city -4
Character had a significant experience in the destination city (honeymoon, funeral), -2
but never lived there
Character spent at least a month in the destination city +1
Character lived in the destination city for at least one year +2
Character lived in the destination city for at least five years +3
Character raised children in the destination city +4
Character grew up in the destination city +5

This isn’t strictly true. The angel, Rasha, is merely trying to glowing threads covering the electrical wires and other cables 
get people to close off the nightmare realm (the God-Machine that connect one building to another. The threads on these 
has no power in this realm). It is willing to answer any ques- cables are easily visible when someone is citywalking from 
tions the characters have about citywalking, but not about one rooftop to another, but are otherwise invisible. 
the God-Machine. In fact, if asked about the God-Machine, Cutting all of these threads at one point makes citywalking 
Rasha becomes defensive and hostile. between the two cities significantly more difficult for a while, 

Actually observing the process of citywalking reveals hints but the cut threads heal within a few hours. However, anyone 
of how it works. Most people report that the world around who looks at the threads on another path while these destroyed 
them seems to almost shimmer slightly while they are citywalk- threads are healing notices that the entire network appears to 
ing. Close observation reveals faint glows and shimmers com- be slightly weakened and damaged. Repeated strikes at the 
ing from the road or sidewalk that the character is walking thread network in widely-separated locations during the same 
or driving on. If a character finds a crack in the sidewalk, or few hours makes citywalking more difficult everywhere and 
makes one using a sledgehammer or similar means, she sees a can eventually stop it altogether. Dozens of people working 
network of narrow, glowing metallic threads extending along together over a large area could damage this network of threads 
the path she is citywalking. These threads aren’t visible when sufficiently enough to destroy it and all citywalking, including 
someone is not citywalking. Every week that people continue walking to the nightmare realm, becomes impossible.
citywalking, this network of threads becomes denser. Anyone Examining the glowing threads also reveals that all of 
who citywalks by traveling across rooftops can find similar them appear golden except one, which shines silver. All of 

236 
Tales of the God machine



these silvery threads lead to the nightmare realm. Cutting hear it, but not so close that they pounce anyway. Roll Wits 
only these threads prevents people from traveling to the + Firearms to get the timing right. 
nightmare realm from the city the traveler originated from, Animal Ken: Some animals can citywalk. Cats, especially, 
at least until the threads heal. are instinctively able to do it, but rats and some dogs can, 

It’s not possible to cut the threads permanently, at least not as well. Roll Wits + Animal Ken to observe the animal as it 
without destroying the entire concept of a city. The characters vanishes onto the path. 
can close off the nightmare realm, but it requires ending the Streetwise: Locating people who have visited the night-
practice of citywalking. Making the threads too hostile to use mare realm requires a Presence + Streetwise roll.
can be accomplished by asking Rasha for help. He can make Mystery Cult Initiation (see p. 51): The Citywalker Merit 
the golden threads sharp and jagged, which will make citywalk- would be a superb reward for someone who has worked 
ing feel like walking on broken glass. The characters could also herself up the ranks of an old, mystical cult. 
draw on the knowledge of the cults that taught citywalking Fame (see p. 50): A character could parley the ability 
centuries ago — maybe some kind of ritual exists that alters the to walk between cities as a special talent and get rich and 
frequency of the golden threads, thus making it impossible for famous…at least until the members of the mystery cult learn 
human beings to use them to citywalk. that he’s doing it.  

Methods Escalation
Investigation: A successful Wits + Investigation roll while Perhaps a few of the largest cities were closely connected 

attempting to observe the process of citywalking reveals a to the nightmare realm and are now more than half com-
faint glow through cracks in the street that are evidence of posed of twisted, nightmare-realm buildings (this might be 
the glowing threads. a way to get the characters to a variant of their own city; see 

Occult: Delving into the secret history of citywalking Sister City, p. 201). Alternately, after the nightmare realm is 
requires an Intelligence + Occult roll (probably an extended cut off, people begin seeing a vast, shining, white city in the 
one). distance. Anyone who travels too far into this city enters a 

Athletics: While citywalking from one city to another trance and begins performing menial tasks there. An increas-
isn’t nearly the same physical feat that actually walking the ing number of people who citywalk end up in this city, the 
distance is, a character still might need a Stamina + Athletics Invisible Citadel (p. 219).
roll to keep up the pace. Or, if the characters manage to curtail citywalking, 

Firearms: Loud noises scare the nightmare creatures away, someone manages to remember it. He’s not using it for the 
but the trick is firing the gun when they’re close enough to betterment of mankind, though (The Key, p. 208).

237 
Urban Wandering









The Cogs  
in the Machine: 

Characters
If everything on Earth is a function of the God-Machine, then what are the 

inhabitants? Are they programs, trusted with will and agency, but ultimately 
subservient? Are they self-replicating mechanisms akin to nanobots? Or are they 
merely cogs in the machine? 

This section examines some of these cogs, Storyteller characters to help bring 
your God-Machine chronicle to life. The first part of the section presents human 
(if altered) characters who have had the misfortune to become involved with the 
God-Machine. Most of them correspond to one of the Tales. For those that don’t, 
we provide suggestions on which Tales are most appropriate for their inclusion.

The second part of this section describes angels, the strange, spiritual servants 
of the God-Machine. Most of the angels provided correspond to a Tale, but you 
should absolutely use these angels as inspiration to create your own for your own 
Tales of the God-Machine.  

BENJAMIN WAYNE 
MASTERS

hOn t
tOhee np dtuhulelhe hill when 

sehtdi,l  mtl wheeh f eanrhoem 
pulled me from the Charismatic leader of the Cult of Revelations.

sdesueasit m,dt, el 
he angel said, Background: Benjamin Wayne Masters grew up as an orphan from the age 

t“hYionug sa
 “You wnilgl 
w.nill see many of six. Both of his parents died in a car wreck. He was put into the state system, 

strange th. D
y s
 ingots r.nDoan

otg
  nbe 

a ot started in his first foster home at the age of seven, and was in and out of foster 
be afraid. You have a homes until he was sixteen years old. He suffered abuse and neglect in many of 

hwa
f
o ih

r
ly mission and I will the homes, and his depression and withdrawn personality made him a burden on 

pSlrlo
a

o plyid iYs oou havee  
tmer

 
cuto

m
g yt obe

s
uac
i
.s”t

n
t S ay

 an
mroduud 

.g.I ”  even the best of foster parents. 
bastard. Benjamin ran away from his last set of foster parents, whom he had been with 

for a record three years. They had entered him into psychiatric care and were, 
—— MC Chorioshtrorpeish,t eLor Mpamohober:re,  by far, the most caring family he had, but by that point it was too late. The one 

Lamb: The Gospel thing Benjamin latched onto from the family was their religion. He stayed with 

AATcccohcreding to Biff, one of his church friends for a few weeks then disappeared completely for a year. 
CBhrist’s Co Gospel  

hildhood Pal When he returned, he attended church regularly and his troubled past seemed to 

Cifhifld,h 
rCding to 
oohdr Pistal’s be behind him. The pastor was impressed by his change and gave him odd jobs 

to do around the church. 
It wasn’t long before the pastor’s wife found Benjamin molesting a young girl in 

the choir room during church. He was expelled and told to never return. Shortly 
after, Benjamin joined a missionary group traveling to Nigeria. He impressed 
the missionaries with his righteous attitude and gained admittance by offering 
to work for his food and lodgings. While there, he spent most of his time on the 
compound cleaning and cooking for the missionaries. For the first time in his 
life, Benjamin felt at peace with his surroundings and his role in life. On a trip 
into the city for supplies, he ran across a group of children playing. He stopped 
to ask them if they knew about God. They responded to him in English to tell 
him that they did know God. God lived in a clearing to the north and they spoke 
with him regularly. 

240 
The Cogs in the machine-characters



Intrigued by this revelation, Benjamin asked the children his life if threatened. Most view him as a madman, and this 
to bring him to the clearing. They led him through the woods is more than likely true. 
to a small clearing in the forest with a blackened and charred Benjamin could appear in any Tale that takes place in an 
hole in the center. Inside the hole was a mess of whirling urban environment. If the players need a strange, insane, but 
gears and cogs. When he got near, the children scattered and still helpful, mentor in the mysteries of the God-Machine, 
left him there alone. they can attend one of Benjamin’s sermons. Of course, 

He leaned over the hole to inspect the machine parts, all Benjamin has some unsavory appetites. Can the characters 
shining and well oiled. He could tell that this was just the stomach that, even if he has useful information? 
very edge of the machinery, and that it extended for miles Appropriate Tales for Ben include: The 300 Block (p. 
in all directions. Fearful, yet in awe, he addressed it as God 197), This Is Hell (p. 231), and The Squares of the City (p. 
and it responded. Benjamin doesn’t remember the conversa- 203). He would also make an interesting red herring in The 
tion or what happened, but he knows that he met God and Key (p. 208).
that he has a mission. He stumbled back to the missionary 
compound, dehydrated and delirious. He was unconscious Virtue: Righteous
for a full 24 hours and when he awoke, all he could talk Vice: Cowardly
about was meeting God. Unfortunately for him, while he 
was unconscious the missionaries had attempted to contact Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 4, 
his family, and in the process had learned of his disturbing Resolve 3
history. They booked him a flight home, and told him, as Physical Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, 
had his old church, that they wanted nothing to do with him. Stamina 3

Benjamin was lost, yet strangely serene. He could still Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 4, 
accomplish his mission, but he would never see his God Composure 3
again. Benjamin always saw religion as a way to manipulate Mental Skills: Academics (Religion) 3, Medicine 
and control others, but now he saw that religion was a lie. 2, Occult 2 
His contact with God had driven him to an insane fervor, but Physical Skills: Brawl 2, Drive 2, Larceny 2, 
his reputation with the religious community prevented him Stealth 3
from getting a real following. This intensity also prevented 
him from holding down a job. He took to the streets, and Social Skills: Empathy (Motives) 3, Expression 
found his place there. He joined a group of indigents living 3, Persuasion (Motivational Speeches) 3, 

Socialize 3, Streetwise 4
in some old tunnels under the downtown area. They showed 
him a deep undercity that was rarely explored. Out of curios- Merits: Allies 3 (Street People), Inspiring, Striking 
ity, Benjamin began mapping out these tunnels and where Looks 1
the entrances and exits were. There, he was able to find a Health: 8
small hole in the tunnels that led to a deeper part of the city. Willpower: 6
Inside he found a set of exposed gears and cogs, shining and Integrity: 5
oily like the ones he found in Nigeria. 

Benjamin knew ecstasy. He brought the homeless down Size: 5
to witness the gears and preached to them about God. The Speed: 11
group listened with rapt attention. Most of them were in- Defense: 3
sane already, and those who weren’t needed something to 
hold onto. Benjamin stylized his small group the Church Initiative: 6
of Revelations. He and his homeless congregation preach Armor: None
the word of God to any that will listen among the streets 
of the city. DR. HENRI GIRARD

Description: Benjamin Wayne Masters lives on the street 
and so his clothes are worn and dirty, and he smells of oil and 
earth. He has black hair and black eyes and his dark skin is Immortal inventor and rogue God-Machine 
dusty from lack of washing. He is soft spoken, reverent, and operative who is attempting to save time. 
his voice is a deep baritone.

Storytelling Hints: Benjamin Wayne Masters is a dis- Background: Dr. Girard was born in the early 19th cen-
turbed man, yet is strangely magnetic. He tries to convince tury, where he showed early promise as an engineer and an 
anyone he encounters that he has met God and he has a inventor. He was approached by would-be acolytes of the God-
mission. If pressed, he doesn’t actually recall what his mission Machine, who offered him access to wondrous technologies to 
is, other than to spread the word of God. He claims that he experiment with, as well as a lifespan measured in centuries 
has seen God and that God is everywhere in the earth and instead of decades. Dr. Girard was a contented agent of the 
surrounds us. He is not particularly violent, but will protect God-Machine until 1920, when he realized that a device he 
what he believes is the physical manifestation of God with had built in 1901 was fatally flawed. The acolytes believed 

241 
NPCs



From Left to Right: Joseph Moore, Dr. Henri Gerrard, Lucien McJack,  
Benjamin Wayne Masters, and Margret Avery

that this device would allow them to freely travel to any point talks with his hands or works with his hands while he is talk-
in the past or future. Dr. Girard came to believe that this ing. When he is talking about something important to him, 
device was instead inspired by the God-Machine, to enable his eyes brighten and he speaks in a faster, more animated 
it to dissolve all of time into a single, endless moment, an tone of voice, almost becoming manic at times. Dr. Girard is 
act that would destroy humanity and horribly transform the quite well off, and all of his clothes are obviously expensive 
entire cosmos. Dr. Girard’s superiors refused to believe him and well made, but unless he is attending a formal dinner 
and dismissed his concerns. To avoid imprisonment or death, or some similar function, his appearance is clean, but often 
he then convinced them that he had made a mistake and slightly ill kempt, with his shirttail partially untucked or his 
that he, too, was looking forward to gaining mastery of time. hair only half combed. 

Since 1920, Dr. Girard secretly devoted much of his ef- Storytelling Hints: Dr. Girard is brilliant and thoughtful 
forts to discovering a way to destroy the device he had helped and ever since 1920 he has been devoted to the idea of sav-
create before it had built up sufficient power to activate and ing humanity from destruction. He has also learned that his 
destroy time. Unfortunately, he realized that the only way to previous beliefs in both the God-Machine’s grand purpose 
safely deactivate the device was to keep the device from being and the wisdom of his superiors were misplaced. Prior to 
built in the first place. Dr. Girard knew that to accomplish 1920, he was an idealist who was convinced that service to 
this goal, he or someone else must travel back to 1901, just the God-Machine would benefit both himself and humanity 
after the device was activated, and before he informed his as a whole. Since that time, he has learned that at least some 
superiors about it. of his superiors are greedy and self-serving and that the angels 

Description: Dr. Girard is a tall, slender handsome man and the God-Machine itself care nothing for humanity.
with a full head of shockingly-red hair. His blue eyes stare Dr. Girard understands that overthrowing the God-
intently at anyone he is talking to. He has a soft, but intense, Machine’s power over humanity is impossible and that ef-
voice and often speaks like he is a skilled and engaging profes- forts to do so would end badly. Instead, he wishes to avoid 
sor lecturing to a class of students. Dr. Girard enjoys talking disasters and to help find ways for humanity to survive and 
about cutting-edge chemistry and physics with anyone who perhaps even thrive. If the characters succeed in the Tale A 
can meaningfully discuss these topics. Dr. Girard’s demeanor Journey Into Time (p. 228), and in 1901 inform Dr. Girard 
is both expressive and somewhat nervous. He usually either of the reason for their actions, his skepticism about his 

242 
cogs in the machine-characters



superiors begins even earlier. Otherwise, he never realizes the scientific community ignored Joseph’s theories, things 
the dangers of the blue light, but by the 1940s he has noticed that live outside of time and space took notice. 
other problems with his superiors’ plans. At this point, Dr. Joseph’s appointment at the university was for teaching 
Girard decides that the safety and survival of humanity is only, so his research and equation calculating was mostly ac-
more important that either his superiors’ ambitions or the complished after hours in his office. Joseph was on the verge 
plans of the God-Machine. of finishing his mathematical calculations for defining time, 

and was attempting to correlate the time particle with light 
Virtue: Hopeful as both a photon and a wave. During one of his late-night 
Vice: Greedy sessions he was certain that he had finally finished his equa-

tion and was double checking the math when he heard a 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 5, Wits 3, booming voice. The act of finishing the equation and putting 
Resolve 3 into mathematical language what was only a thought before 
Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, had opened a small hole in the space between this world and 
Stamina 3 the next, in which time is infinite and fleeting. Joseph was 
Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 2, at first terrified of the voice, but after a few moments he was 
Composure 2 intrigued. He had made contact with the God-Machine, or 
Mental Skills: Academics 4, Crafts 4, rather, it had made contact with him.
Investigation 3, Occult (Arcane Devices) 3, Politics The proposal was simple. Joseph’s understanding of 
2, Science (Engineering) 5 true time had made him aware of the things outside of time 
Physical Skills: Drive 1, Firearms 1, Larceny 2 and space. His awareness conveyed receptiveness to under-

standing the machinations of something much greater than 
Social Skills: Empathy 1, Expression (Lecturing) 
2, Persuasion 2, Socialize 1, Subterfuge 4 himself, which was mind breaking. Instead of losing his 

mind, Joseph was offered the chance to become one with the 
Merits: Contacts (Academics, God-Machine God-Machine and work its will on earth and within this time 
Cultists) 2, Hardy 2, Language (English, German; particle. Joseph couldn’t really say no. With all that he could 
native French) 2, Resources 4, Striking Looks 1 see and understand, he was in danger of losing himself to 
Health: 8	 the infinite. In that instant of forever, he gave himself over. 
Willpower: 5 Now he is nothing more than a singularity of time express-

Integrity: 6 ing both himself and the God-Machine in this time and all 
others. While he still looks and acts like a human being, he 

Size: 5 is so much more. 
Speed: 10 The God-Machine uses Joseph as a point of entry into the 
Defense: 3 world, and has his mind working on calculating time points 

for Infrastructure for angelic entry into the world.
Initiative: 5 Description: On the surface, Joseph seems like a normal 

professor. He wears glasses and button-up shirts over corduroy 
JOSEPH MOORE pants. He has short, unkempt black hair and his eyes are a 

piercing deep blue which look almost black in the dark. He 
often smells of pipe smoke and cinnamon. When he speaks, 

The God-Machine’s gateway into our world. it is often very low, and his voice is a rich baritone. Joseph 

Background: Joseph Moore was a theoretical physicist of carries the mind and soul of an unknowable entity, which 

no real note. He worked in a state university and theorized causes his speech to be halting and broken. When teaching, 

that black holes and white holes are a single gravitational unit he seems more at ease and his lectures are engaging and full 

that expresses itself through time. His theories assumed that of life. His students never seem to fall asleep in his class, and 

time is not linear, and instead a particle intricately bound to he has the highest pass rate of any physics teacher in the area. 

space that is manipulated by the larger gravitational pull of Outside of class, Joseph seems distant and distracted. He can 

the astral bodies. He speculated that the time at which the barely carry a conversation, and wanders off abruptly if not 

hole was glimpsed determined if it was a black hole in which directly engaged.

matter entered but could never leave, or a white hole in which Storytelling Hints: Joseph is hard to talk to unless the 

matter left but could never enter. Momentary particles were conversation revolves around time or the physics of time. 

either coming or going, but the gravitational entity is always He is a conduit of the God-Machine’s power on Earth, and 

expanding and contracting as though it were a living thing. therefore not really there anymore. His body is simply a hu-

Joseph defined such phenomena as both infinite and definite man face for a much larger entity. Joseph’s translations of 

at the same time. His mathematical models for time as a par- the God-Machine’s concepts are far from coherent. If Joseph 

ticle were extraordinarily complicated and are still unfinished. is engaged in a conversation about quantum physics or time, 

As such, he never published his work. Though members of he becomes much more alert and understandable. These are 
the things he is being used for, and these are the things he 

243 
NPCs



knows. His understanding of time particles can be expressed — slithered into Lucien’s body and wore it like a suit. Lucien 
in great detail. is now an intruder, a dead human body possessed by a bale-

Joseph is not a fighter, and attempts to avoid conflict if ful spirit. Lucien’s reanimated body now has its own unholy 
possible. If attacked, Joseph surrenders. appetites, and it wanders from town to town, preying on the 

Joseph is the closest the characters can reasonably come unfortunate. 
to conversing with the God-Machine. He is a being of im- This would be bad enough, but the God-Machine needed 
mense knowledge and power trapped in a mortal shell, and Lucien McJack for something. What it needed Lucien for 
he doesn’t even have the ability to truly let the God-Machine isn’t immediately relevant. The point is that with Lucien 
speak through him. He is tasked with the impossible chore of dead, some gear or mechanism started spinning backwards, 
being the God-Machine’s mouthpiece. He should therefore and other dead people started getting up as well (this is all 
show up in Tales like A Journey Into Time (p. 228), This Is described in the Wake the Dead Tale, p. 214). Lucien (rather, 
Hell (p. 231), and Proposition 279 (p. 223) — stories with the thing wearing his body) doesn’t know or care about this 
cosmic implications. Stories that play with space and time situation. It has other fish to fry.
(Missing Persons, p. 210, or Do-Over, p. 199) would also be Description: Lucien, in life, was a nondescript fellow with 
appropriate. thinning red-blonde hair, a slight beard, and a tribal tattoo 

on his meaty right arm. The intruder shaved its head and 
Virtue: Honest pulled out several of Lucien’s teeth (giving it the appearance 
Vice: Flighty of a fanged mouth). The tattoo on its arm also seems to be 

spreading, creating designs that give people headaches if they 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 5, Wits 4, stare too long. 
Resolve 3 Storytelling Hints: Lucien McJack wants to watch fear 
Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, turn to pain and then to acceptance. It likes watching people 
Stamina 2 die. The first few victims it just beat to death, but that causes 
Social Attributes: Presence 2, Manipulation 2, so much trauma that people don’t have time to come to grips 
Composure 4 with what is happening. It’s thinking about moving up to poi-
Mental Skills: Academics (Research) 4, son, but it needs materials for that. Strangulation, perhaps. 
Computer 2, Investigation 1, Occult 3, Science 5 It’s important to note that the intruder is not the ghost of 
(Physics) Lucien McJack or Lucien McJack resurrected. The intruder 
Physical Skills: Athletics 2, Drive 2 is just a nonhuman entity using McJack as a conveyance. 

Nothing of McJack remains but the face and the name. 
Social Skills: Expression 1, Intimidation (Cold) 3, 
Persuasion 2, Socialize 1 Lucien is the main antagonist and motivating force in the 

Tale Wake the Dead (p. 214).
Merits: Cursed, Eidetic Memory, Resources 2, 
Status 2 (University) Virtue: Methodical
Health: 7 Vice: Sadistic
Willpower: 8 Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 3, 
Integrity: 7 Resolve 3
Size: 5 Physical Attributes: Strength 5, Dexterity 3, 
Speed: 8 Stamina 4

Defense: 4 Social Attributes: Presence 2, Manipulation 2, 
Composure 3

Initiative: 6
Mental Skills: Academics 1, Computer 1, 
Investigation 1, Occult 1, Science (Chemistry) 1

LUCIEN MCJACK Physical Skills: Athletics 3, Brawl (Grappling) 3, 
Drive 1, Firearms 1, Larceny 2, Stealth (Stalking) 
4, Weaponry 2

Dead, but over it. Social Skills: Animal Ken 1, Empathy 1, 
Background: Lucien McJack was out on the highway one Expression 2, Intimidation 2, Persuasion (Helpful) 2

night when his car broke down. Unable to get it working, Merits: Fast Reflexes 2, Fleet of Foot 3, Martial 
he left a note for the police, locked the doors, and started Arts 5
walking toward civilization. He put out his thumb to try and 
catch a ride, and a car struck and killed him. That was the Health: 9
end of Lucien McJack. Willpower: 6

That wasn’t the end, though. A spirit — a foul, evil, vi- Integrity: n/a
cious thing from a place that humanity does not understand Size: 5

244 
cogs in the machine-characters



Speed: 16 parameters are dictated by her boss, who receives his orders 
Defense: 6 from someone higher up. Presumably, these parameters are 

Initiative: 8 set by the entity they are appeasing, and something about 
the victim satisfies its needs and prevents world annihila-

Supernatural Aspects: tion. Margret analyzes each individual for these parameters 
•	Drain: As the Numen (p. 137). Lucien can and selects the one with the best fit. She then informs her 

drain Health or Willpower. It must touch its target superiors and the individual is brought in for sacrifice. 
(Dexterity + Brawl to do so in combat). The roll to Most of the time, the sacrifices come from internal sources. 
activate the power is Strength + Resolve, op- Sometimes they come from other companies or completely 
posed by Resolve + Composure + Supernatural unassociated outside sources. 
Tolerance (if draining Willpower) or Resolve + Margret doesn’t know if she believes she is saving the 
Stamina + Supernatural Tolerance (if draining 
Health). If Lucien wins, it gains Willpower or world, but she has always done her best at any job she has. 
Health equal to the successes rolled. The truth of the matter is far less glamorous than saving 

the world. She is selecting individuals based on a pattern 
•	Emotional Aura: As the Numen (p. 137). set forth by the God-Machine to keep some gears well-oiled 
•	Unnatural Hunger: Lucien loses two points and functioning. 

of Willpower per day. It must use Drain to Description: Margret Avery is a middle-aged woman with 
replenish this Willpower. If it runs out of long, thick black hair streaked through with gray. She has 
Willpower, it starts suffering lethal damage. deep brown eyes, and lines along her face from smiling. She 
Once its Health track fills with lethal damage, 
it suffers a -3 to all actions until it can use Drain is a little overweight, but is healthy. She has a high-pitched, 

to heal. Lucien can regain Willpower through lilting voice and a contagious laugh. She often dresses 
its Virtue and Vice, but not via rest. It cannot smartly in a pantsuit and flats and wears Chanel No. 5 as 
heal Health in any way except by using Drain. her signature scent. 

Storytelling Hints: Margret Avery is an intelligent woman 
who cares about her job. She schedules sacrifices about a 

MARGRET AVERY week in advance, and they occur weekly, sometimes more 
often if necessary. Those outside her chain of command may 
notice her association with several disappearances within the 

The administration expert. corporation or around the city. If someone comes around 
Background: Margret Avery worked for a large corpora- asking too many questions, Margret is more than likely go-

tion as a Human Resources specialist, and everything ran ing to be suspicious of them. She is not completely certain 
smoothly in her office. Her particular specialty was layoffs. that she is saving the world, and can be convinced that she 
She was in charge of reading production reports and deter- is being used if the notion is presented logically. Otherwise, 
mining where to cut excesses to keep the corporation work- she might recognize a few parameters in the questioner, and 
ing as efficiently as possible. She performed this job with assume a sacrifice is attempting to avoid their fate. Margret 
a sense of detachment to the personnel affected, but she cares about humanity and life, and even if she cannot be 
was polite and professional when delivering her decisions. convinced to leave her job, she could easily be convinced to 
While Margret did not especially love her job, it satisfied her let a potential sacrifice leave in lieu of another.
analytical mind. She took it seriously, though, and she was Margret has a layer of security personnel around her at 
good at it. It was no small wonder that she was promoted all times, even though she usually doesn’t see them. She’s 
twice in one year. a good false antagonist — the characters might trace weird 

Margret’s second promotion changed her job drastically. occurrences or orders for sacrifice back to her, only to find 
It brought her out of HR and into the administrative offices that she’s just doing her job. She’s a good character to appear 
of the company. Here is where Margret Avery first learned the in The Moon Window (p. 212) or in an official capacity in 
true purpose of her corporation. On the surface, the company Proposition 279 (p. 223). She might also provide some advice 
functions as any business would. They produce goods and sell for the characters if they get to the point of making sacrifices 
them to the public. Behind that public façade, the company in The 300 Block (p. 197). 
makes sacrifices to an ethereal entity to prevent the world 
from ending. Of course, the veracity of the belief that they Virtue: Idealistic
are saving the world has yet to be tested. Vice: Naïve

Margret’s new job is to select individuals for sacrifice. The 
job is surprisingly similar to her job as a layoff specialist. She is Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 3, 
given a portfolio of select individuals that includes their work Resolve 2
performance and their overall life experiences. Parameters for Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, 
acceptable sacrifices are not based completely on their output Stamina 2
and performance, nor are they based on their usefulness Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 2, 
to society. Instead, each time a sacrifice is needed, a set of Composure 2

245 
NPCs



Mental Skills: Academics (Law) 3, Computer 2, and large corporate websites. Often, Mark was instructed to 
Investigation 3, Occult 1, Politics 2 embed new information on websites, but leave them wholly 
Physical Skills: Athletics 1, Drive 2, Stealth 1 intact otherwise. This is his job as Truth, to change the lies on 

Social Skills: Empathy (Delivering Bad News) these websites to the truth for the public to see. The things his 
2, Intimidation (Veiled Threats) 2, Persuasion 2, friends have asked him to do have been increasingly strange 
Subterfuge 3 and esoteric, but Mark doesn’t want to lose the only friends 

Merits: Contacts 2 (Corporate, Legal), Good he has, so he does what is asked of him. 

Time Management, Resources 3, Retainers Mark is an unwitting pawn. He knows it on some level, 
(Security) 5, Staff (Investigation, Computer) 2 but he won’t admit it to himself. He can recognize that 

something isn’t right with what he is being asked to do. He 
Health: 7 knows that his friends have become hard to understand, or 
Willpower: 4 completely cold and unfeeling. 
Integrity: 3 Mark’s friends are no longer a community of other hackers. 

Size: 5 Those that were real are now dead, and instead he has been 
given instructions from the God-Machine for nearly two years. 

Speed: 9 Description: Mark Wilson is a scrawny, greasy, smelly 
Defense: 3 teenage boy. His skin is pasty white due to lack of exposure 
Initiative: 4 to the sun, and his hair is a slick, mousey, brown mop. His 

voice cracks, but it seems to be settling on a low baritone. 
Armor: None He doesn’t care much about personal hygiene and often his 

clothes are rumpled and stained. He is tall and lanky, but has 
MARK WILSON, “TRUTH” a wiry frame and defined muscle tone. He exercises when he 

isn’t hacking. His exercise habits revolve around his escape 
plan in case he is ever raided by the Feds. He can run for a 

A young hacker intent on saving the world. long time, and has learned how to jump out of his bedroom 
Background: Hacking a system is an art. Hacking a window without hurting himself.

secured government website and replacing the content with Storytelling Hints: Mark is cocky and sure of himself. His 
nude pictures of Paris Hilton is comedy gold. Mark Wilson is goals in life are to hack, and to pass high school calculus. Mark 
a typical teenage boy with an atypical hobby. He grew up with is at a delicate point in his life. He has never had real friends 
the internet and has taught himself the ins and outs of using other than the ones on the internet, and those are now dead. 
it for his own purposes. When he first started hacking, it was The truth of that loss would be devastating to him. Stopping 
in attempts to play online games for free. He had moderate him from acting might be easy, but convincing him to stop 
success and joined several forums filled with fellow hackers. listening to his hacker friends will take perseverance. Mark is 

Mark’s online presence was larger than life. Though he an unwitting antagonist. He is helping the God-Machine on 
had a hard time associating with people on a face-to-face the thin faith that he is helping to make the world a better 
basis, he could interact through his computer with great place. He holds on to that faith in the face of most rebuttals 
finesse. He was forced to read and understand what was be- without hard proof to the contrary. Mark will not fight for 
ing said first, and was easily able to compose intelligent and his beliefs, though; he would rather run.
well-thought-out responses given enough time. Without that Truth makes for a good online contact, someone who can 
kind of time, Mark was pretty horrible at communication. provide information for the characters (and avoid tedious rolls 
He quickly made friends with people much older and much to hack into computer systems). He’s working for the God-
more experienced than he. These friends taught him about Machine, though, which means that even if he doesn’t plan 
internet security and how to bypass almost any system. to share information, the God-Machine knows everything 

Most of his friends were concerned with the political cli- he types or receives. He would be a good character to help 
mate of internet censorship and loss of privacy. They formed analyze weird computer- or mechanism-related strangeness in 
communities of likeminded individuals and organized pro- Tales like Ghost Machine (p. 207), A Glimpse of Mesmerizing 
tests of government actions through hacking websites and Complexity (p. 216), or Moon Window (p. 212).
leaking classified government information. Mark joined in 
all of these activities with zeal. Though he didn’t understand Virtue: Thorough 
the implications of most of what he was doing, it was good Vice: Lazy
to be recognized and his head was filled with propaganda Mental Attributes: Intelligence 4, Wits 3, 
about loss of freedoms. Resolve 2

Mark adopted the handle “Truth” to represent his desire 
to lay open government conspiracies to take away personal Physical Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, 
freedoms. It was one of the few political agendas that Mark Stamina 2
understood completely and could get behind. Soon, his Social Attributes: Presence 1, Manipulation 4, 
friends began organizing collective attacks on government Composure 3

246 
cogs in the machine-characters



Mental Skills: Academics 2, Computer same eye for detail that helps her notice unusual activity also 
(Hacking) 5, Investigation 4, Politics 1 serves her well in detecting fraud. 
Physical Skills: Athletics (Running) 3, Drive 2, Description: Melissa Charles is a quiet introvert. She care-
Larceny 1, Stealth 2 fully observes the world around her, but largely does her best to 
Social Skills: Empathy 1, Expression (Photoshop) live apart from it. She is in her late 30s and dresses in moderately 
1, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 2 expensive, but bland, clothing. She keeps her hair short and does 

Merits: Contacts (Hackers), Fleet of Foot 2, her best to not draw attention to her appearance. Her voice is 

Parkour 3, Resources 1 soft and she is shy in person. However, her shy reserve vanishes 
if someone asks about her interests or she begins talking about 

Health: 7 the oddities she is obsessed with. In such cases, her face comes 
Willpower: 5 alive and she talks in a manner that is considerably faster and 
Integrity: 6 more animated. However, she is awkward at making small talk, 

Size: flirting, or otherwise engaging in social pleasantries. 
5 Storytelling Hints: Melissa Charles isn’t interested in 

Speed: 13 opposing or working for the God-Machine or its operatives. 
Defense: 6 She is interested in collecting relics and stories about the 
Initiative: 6 world’s oddities, and attempting to make sense of these 

seemingly-inexplicable events. Because of some of the horrors 
she has witnessed, Melissa Charles has become moderately 

MELISSA CHARLES paranoid, and refuses to talk about her collection or any of 
the events she has witnessed in any detail, unless the person 
she is talking to has made it clear that they have had similar 

Obsessive collector of God-Machine artifacts. experiences. Behind the tasteful curtains in the windows of 
Background: When she was 14, Melissa Charles was her house is an expensive security system; she also has wire 

smoking a cigarette outside of a seemingly-abandoned ware- mesh embedded in the windows and behind the drywall to 
house when she saw a group of semi-human creatures in tan render her house a Faraday cage. She is simultaneously eager 
jumpsuits enter the warehouse via a trap door in the floor. to discuss her experiences and learn more, and afraid that she 
Under the direction of a woman in an expensive business might be talking to agents of the God-Machine, or to people 
suit, these creatures assembled a strange and complex device who might reveal her to them. 
in the middle of the warehouse and activated it. Almost an If characters make it clear they have also witnessed inexpli-
hour later, as Melissa continued to watch in terrified silence, cable events, Melissa is likely to share information with them. 
the creatures disassembled the device, and they and the young However, she will strongly attempt to dissuade anyone from 
woman walked back down through the trap door. Shortly af- going to the authorities or attempting to make any of their 
ter this event, the town had its first earthquake in more than discoveries public. She firmly tells characters that she’ll deny 
a century. Melissa wondered about the relation between the knowing them if they try to draw attention to anything they 
device and the earthquake. She also began looking into the have discovered. When talking about what she has witnessed, 
strange places and events that most people refused to notice. it’s clear that Melissa is simultaneously fascinated, horrified, 

Her life changed forever when she was 17. She would and most of all deeply interested in stories about the odd and 
have fled from the precise and terrible human sacrifice hidden aspects of the world and what they mean. She is most 
she witnessed inside a closed restaurant in a strip mall, but interested in the physical stuff of these incidents, but also 
was afraid that moving would reveal her presence. Unable happily listens to reports or looks at photographs of strange 
to either save the young man who was killed or to escape, incidents. She has no patience with individuals performing 
afterwards she kept a bloodstained fragment of the victim’s hoaxes or people foolish enough to believe them; she has 
sleeve as evidence for what she saw. seen true wonders and terrors, and wishes to learn more.

Since seeing that murder, finding, and in some way docu- Melissa can appear in any Tale, holding just the right relic 
menting, various odd events became her driving obsession. or device to help the characters. Stories like Squares of the 
Often, all the evidence she possesses is a grainy photograph City (p. 203; maybe she has a torch that can cut the tracks), 
taken with her phone or a sketch. However, she periodically Urban Wandering (p. 235; Melissa found a pair of lenses 
manages to obtain some fragment of physical evidence of the that focus a flashlight beam into a searing light that burns 
odd phenomena she witnessed. the nightmare creatures), or Wellington School for Gifted 

She’s seen people who looked wealthy and powerful at Children (p. 205; she is an alumna, and left behind notes and 
several of the events she’s witnessed, and she’s also seen police trinkets for the characters to find) are especially appropriate. 
officers at two of them. As a result, Ms. Charles has never con-
sidered attempting to make her collection public or to report Virtue: Patient
anything she has witnessed to any law enforcement agency. Vice: Cowardly
Today, Melissa Charles works as a forensic accountant. The 

247 
NPCs



Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 3, went on for six months, and at the end he was given a clean 
Resolve 3 bill of health and told his training was over. He was to report 
Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, back to his division for his new orders. 
Stamina 2 He didn’t feel specially trained, and he certainly didn’t 
Social Attributes: Presence 2, Manipulation 2, believe he was any different than he was before the training. 
Composure 3 Bemused but accepting, Samuel returned to his division. 

Mental Skills: Academics 3, Crafts 1, When he reported to the officer on duty, he was instructed to 

Investigation 3, Occult 3, Science 1 take a vehicle and meet his trainers at the site. He wondered 
at the strangeness of it as he drove there alone. Soon, Samuel 

Physical Skills: Drive 1, Firearms 1, Larceny learned why his orders were special. He was supposed to run 
(Lockpicking) 2, Stealth (Hiding) 3 through the exercise without a team. He had to do a task, 
Social Skills: Persuasion (Emotional Appeals) 1, which normally required 15 people to accomplish, alone. 
Subterfuge 3 After the initial shock wore off, he decided this was probably 
Merits: Eye for the Strange, Resources 3, Safe just a test, something designed for him to fail, but that the 
House 3 where and when would be important.
Health: 7 With that in mind, Samuel set out. Within minutes of 

the first assault and explosion, he was certain that this was 
Willpower: 6 no routine test. The shrapnel was real, and he was certain 
Integrity: 7 he saw bullet holes in the walls as he ran for cover. He felt 
Size: 5 faster and stronger than normal. His hearing was more 
Speed: 9 acute, as were his senses of sight and smell. He didn’t have 

much time to contemplate these changes as he dodged bul-
Defense: 2 lets and explosions. Samuel realized that he wasn’t thinking 
Initiative: 5 about anything at all; instead, it seemed that his body was 

responding to the attacks on its own. He attempted to slow 

LIEUTENANT SAMUEL down for a moment to collect his thoughts, but his body was 
unresponsive to his desires. It moved and shifted through 

HACKETT the urban landscape of its own accord. Samuel watched in 
horror, as though he were a stranger in his own body. He 
watched as he decapitated a target, and then flawlessly shot 

Experimental test subject, Alpha. three more in the head as he casually passed by. He wanted 
Background: Samuel Hackett joined the U.S. Army di- to squeeze his eyes closed and block out everything so that he 

rectly out of high school. He wasn’t particularly bright, but could get a grip on himself, but the effort was futile. Instead, 
he was dedicated and strong. He was placed in the mobile he rode along as his body performed actions that he would 
infantry and trained to be a combat soldier. His training was have never dreamed possible. 
rigorous, but Samuel was up for the job. He had benefits, Though he is a simple man, Samuel knew that he had 
steady pay, and time off every now and then to visit his fam- been turned into a weapon. Afraid of what he could be used 
ily. It was more than he could have ever asked for, and it was for, Samuel ran, using his newfound abilities to break out 
his life. Samuel never got the chance to be career military in of military control. Now he is on the run and afraid for his 
the traditional sense. He never rose in ranks and standing life, as well as the lives of anyone he comes in contact with. 
to gain an officer title. Instead, he was selected to be part of Samuel’s program was a glowing success. His body was 
a test group for infantry improvement. hard-wired with mechanisms that allow the God-Machine 

Samuel wasn’t told much about the project. He was to control his every motion. He is a tool, ready to be used 
given over to the hands of a civilian corporation contracted when necessary. Even his departure from the military was 
to perform some medical tests and oversee his training. He not entirely his decision. The God-Machine needs Samuel 
wasn’t allowed to talk about the program to anyone except to be as free of constraints as possible, so that it may fully 
his direct superiors. work through him at a moment’s notice.

Training ended up being a very loose term for what Description: Samuel Hackett is a large man with big 
Samuel went through. He spent night and day hooked up muscles and meaty hands. He has close-cropped brown hair 
to a large machine, unlike anything he had ever seen before, and deep brown eyes. He is soft spoken with a rich, baritone 
that seemed to monitor his every movement, heartbeat, and voice. Samuel can’t shake his military training, and is always 
breath. His memory of the time spent attached to the ma- clean. His clothes are always freshly pressed, starched with 
chine is hazy at best. He remembers hearing people talking straight creases, and have a crisp, clean smell. He shaves and 
over him about his treatments, and he remembers hearing exercises, but only out of habit. No matter what he eats or how 
the grinding of wheels shortly before blacking out about once sedentary he becomes, his body keeps itself in fighting trim.
a week. He would wake up from these episodes feeling sore Storytelling Hints: Samuel is terrified of himself and what 
and exhausted, with the taste of copper in his mouth. This he is capable of. He is not always in control of his body and he 

248 
cogs in the machine-characters



knows it. Samuel warns people that he is dangerous, even if her there starting in the fourth grade and enrolled her to stay 
he seems nice and polite at all times. He wants to help people; for the summers as well. She only sees her parents over the 
it is part of his nature, but he is wary of strangers. Ever since Christmas holiday, which usually consists of the day before 
his “special training” his temper has been unpredictable, and and the day of Christmas. Most people would think her par-
when he loses control, he inevitably hurts someone. ents are extraordinarily neglectful, but they don’t see it that 

Samuel is a good antagonist to use if the characters have way. Sarah was diagnosed with high-functioning autism when 
made a habit of taking overt, violent action against the God- she was five years old. Her parents tried conventional schools, 
Machine. If they trash the factory in Missing Persons (p. 210) but decided they could not provide the correct environment 
or inflict a lot of structural damage on The Invisible Citadel for her to be successful, so brought her to Wellington.
(p. 219), or even if they succeed in destroying West Nautical Sarah’s disability is not as severe as her diagnosis makes it 
36 in Operation: Bell Jar (p. 221), Samuel can reluctantly sound. She does not have autism (or, if she does, it’s not her 
track them down. Don’t use him as a mindless killing ma- main problem). Instead, she has the ability to see beyond the 
chine, though. He should give the characters warning, tell thin veil that the God-Machine creates to hide itself. She can 
them to run before he attacks. He actually has no desire to see the true workings of the world, and the gears and cogs that 
hurt anyone, and he makes for a good cautionary tale about keep things running. Unfortunately, this means she does not 
the power of the God-Machine. perceive the world the way everyone else does. This seems like 

a handicap to most people. Where normal people see struc-
Virtue: Humble ture and order, Sarah sees rules and regulations that don’t 
Vice: Violent make any sense. She started out by questioning the reasons 

behind these rules and calling out the imposed regulations. 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 3, By the time she got into school, her teachers could not deal 
Resolve 2 with her obvious cognitive dissonance with reality. 
Physical Attributes: Strength 5, Dexterity 4, Sarah excels at Wellington. The issues that forced her 
Stamina 5 parents to send her there seemed to disappear as soon as 
Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 3, she started at the school. The other children at Wellington 
Composure 4 have varying levels of learning disabilities and behavioral 
Mental Skills: Academics 2, Medicine (Combat problems that make the conventional classroom setting dif-
Medic) 2, Politics 1 ficult for them. Sarah does not seem to be bothered by her 
Physical Skills: Athletics 4*, Brawl 4, Firearms special-needs classes, and takes it all in stride. Now that she is 
(Automatic Weapons) 5*, Weaponry 3 older, she knows how to keep her perceptions to herself. But, 

she doesn’t have to do that so much while she is in school 
Social Skills: Empathy 3, Intimidation (Brutal) 
4*, Subterfuge 2 at Wellington, which has made her a more outgoing child. 

Her parents can see the change the school has made in 
*Asset Skills for Professional Training their daughter, which encourages them to keep her there. 
Merits: Close Quarters Combat 3, Contacts Sarah wants nothing more than to prove that she is a normal 
(Military, Black Market), Fast Reflexes 2, Firefight child and go home to them. She doesn’t understand their 
3, Parkour 4, Marksmanship 3, Professional desire to keep her there, and tries her hardest to prove to them 
Training 5, Quick Draw (Gun) that she doesn’t need the institution any longer.
Health: 10 Description: Sarah is tall for her age, and has thick 
Willpower: 6 auburn hair and small brown freckles all over her pale face. 

She has a small, squeaky voice, which makes her intelligence 
Integrity: 5 and insight all the more striking. She wears the regulation 
Size: 5 Wellington School uniform, and prefers skirts rather than 
Speed: 14 pants when available.

Defense: 7 Storytelling Hints: Sarah Andrews is a very smart girl 
and she knows more about the real nature of the world than 

Initiative: 10 most people. But, she is still very immature emotionally and 
Armor: Bulletproof vest 1/3 has a harder time understanding the nature of people. Her 

knowledge of the workings of the God-Machine is dangerous, 

SARAH ANDREWS not only to herself, but to those around her. Emilio Rubio (see 
p. 257) is searching for her, but because of the God-Machine’s 
reduced power on school grounds he isn’t sure which student 

A troubled youth with a deep insight into the she is. Since Wellington is so removed from the influence of 
the God-Machine, Emilio might resort to something blatant 

workings of the world. to get to Sarah. She doesn’t know the kind of danger she’s in, 
Background: Sarah Andrews boards at the Wellington though, and believes her only problem is figuring out how 

School for Gifted Children year round. Her parents brought to return to living with her parents.

249 
NPCs



From Left to Right: Melissa Charles, Lt. Samuel Hackett,  
Sarah Andrews, Mark Wilson, and Wesley Cote.

Sarah appears in the Tale: Wellington School for Gifted Size: 4
Children (p. 205). Speed: 8

Defense: 3
Virtue: Hopeful

Initiative: 5
Vice: Obsessive

Armor: None
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 3, 
Resolve 2
Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, WESLEY COTE
Stamina 2
Social Attributes: Presence 2, Manipulation 2, 
Composure 3 A serial killer out of time.

Background: Wesley Cote was the kind of guy that 
Mental Skills: Academics (History) 3, Crafts 1, 
Investigation 1, Occult 2 people would never imagine being a serial killer. If asked, his 

neighbors would respond, “He was such a kind young man.” 
Physical Skills: Athletics 1, Stealth (Small Of course, after his wife died from the miscarriage, he was a 
Spaces) 3, Survival 2 little troubled, but that only made sense, right?
Social Skills: Empathy 1, Expression 2, Even Wesley would have said the same things only a few 
Persuasion (Fast-Talking) 3, Socialize 2, years ago. But that was before. Before the strange phone calls, 
Subterfuge 3 before the death of his wife, before his life went to Hell and 
Merits: Eidetic Memory, Small-Framed, Unseen he couldn’t make heads or tails of anything. Now, he just 
Sense (God-Machine) does what he needs to do to survive.
Health: 6 It all started in the summer after he first married Anne. 

Willpower: They had bought a house in a small subdivision on the 
5 outskirts of a larger city. He had a good job as a real-estate 

Integrity: 8 agent and she was a kindergarten teacher. Everything was 

250 
cogs in the machine-characters



perfect, until Anne got pregnant. At first they were elated. paranoid and suspicious of everyone he meets, as though he 
But complications arose, and she needed to go to the doctor is losing his grip on which time he is living in at any moment.
for regular checkups. Wesley got the first of a series of strange Storytelling Hints: Wesley must kill while time traveling. 
phone calls during the second of these visits, while he and He isn’t stupid about it, but it must always be at the same time 
Anne sat out in the doctor’s waiting area. The voice sounded and in the same way. He is evasive and tries to keep other 
familiar, though at the time he couldn’t place it. people out of his problems. Wesley loses sleep over what he 

“Don’t let them take Anne to the blue room,” it said des- has done, but it gets easier the more he does it. Normally, 
perately. When Wesley tried to learn more the line went dead. he picks a victim at random to satiate his desire to kill. He 
He told Anne about the phone call. When he mentioned the has killed once or twice in the present to deal with someone 
blue room, she was just as confused as he had been. Wesley who caught him in the future, which prevents it from ever 
received the same phone call with the same message three happening. Wesley would love to seek help for his problem, 
more times over the course of four weeks before the day but he doesn’t know who to turn to or trust. He is afraid of 
Anne started bleeding. They rushed to the emergency room going to jail for these crimes, especially because he isn’t sure 
and the doctors told Wesley it was a miscarriage. They would that prison could keep him from committing them.
have to perform surgery to remove the placenta. Heartbroken, Wesley is The Key (p. 208). Perhaps in some yet-unseen 
he waited with Anne until the doctors came to prep her for future version of himself, he knows that his power and his 
surgery. They assured him that everything was going to be orders come from the God-Machine. As it stands, he is trying 
fine, that Anne would be fine; the surgery was minor and she to reinvent himself so that he has always been The Key, and 
could go home that night. As they wheeled her away, Wesley then maybe Anne would never have met him. 
could see that the surgery room was painted a sedate blue 
color. Panic gripped Wesley and he tried to fight the doctors, Virtue: Generous
but they just ignored him and had orderlies restrain him until Vice: Untrustworthy
he could no longer see his wife. He never saw her alive again. 
Wesley was devastated by the death of his wife, and he never Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 4, 
forgave himself for letting her go to the blue room. Resolve 3

After Anne died, his life started to fall apart. He lost sec- Physical Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, 
tions of time and began to experience déjà vu. He told his Stamina 4
mother about the problem, and she tried to keep an eye on Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 3, 
him, but it wasn’t easy on her. She told him that he would Composure 4
disappear at night and come back covered in blood. At first he Mental Skills: Computer 2, Investigation 2, 
didn’t believe her, but she forced him to wake up the second Medicine (Anatomy) 1, Occult 2
time it happened, and he saw the blood for himself. Wesley Physical Skills: Athletics 1, Brawl 2, Drive 1, 
decided that sleeping was what was causing it, but he learned Stealth 3 (Staying Quiet), Weaponry (Knives) 4
quickly that this was not the case. He was time traveling, or 
traveling through space and time, he wasn’t sure which. Once Social Skills: Intimidation 3, Persuasion 2, 
he started paying attention to what was happening, he could Socialize 2, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 2
remain aware of himself on these sojourns. Merits: Cheap Shot, Fast Reflexes 1, Quick Draw 

However, this is what broke Wesley. He had control over (Melee), Resources 2, Shiv 3, Street Fighting 4
himself, but when he went into different times, he had a mis- Health: 9
sion and he knew it. He had to kill. He didn’t know how he Willpower: 7
knew it, but it was nearly instinctual. Once he completed the 
task, he would return to his time and be free again for a while. Integrity: 2

Wesley drew a sketchy connection between the start of Size: 5
the time traveling and the death of Anne and decided that Speed: 12
her death was the cause of his problems. That was when he Defense: 4
started trying to call himself whenever he was in the same 
time to warn him not to let Anne go into the blue room. Initiative: 8
As he kills more often, however, he loses track of the gentle 
man and good husband he was. And as the future Wesley WEST NAUTICAL 36
travels back in time and gives lessons in temporal manipula-
tion, murder, and body disposal to teenage Wesley, present 
Wesley wonders if the good man ever existed. North Sea oil platform.

Description: Wesley is a pale, gaunt man with dirty blond Background: Arnold Diefenbach worked for an oil 
hair and gray-blue eyes, shadowed from lack of sleep. He is an company that specialized in offshore drilling. He spent eight 
intense man whose gaze unnerves those who look at him for months out of the year on the oil platform West Nautical 36, 
too long. He smells of old blood and decay, as though he can monitoring oil purity and refinement. He thought of West 
never wash away the evidence of his deeds. He always seems Nautical 36 as his home. He would find himself anticipating 

251 
NPCs



deck drew Arnold from the control room. He 
stood in the rain, looked up to the storm-torn 
sky, and cried out for a miracle. Something 
heard his cry and responded. Arnold followed 
the sounds deep into the platform’s mechanical 
center and there he spoke with it. He knew how 
to help the platform, but he couldn’t do so from 
the outside. The interfaces were not working 
properly because the lightning had damaged 
the electronics. Lightning struck again, and the 
electricity traveled down into the mechanisms 
and out through the gears, into Arnold. He fell 
forward into the machinery and was drawn in, 
his body fusing with the platform. His arms and 
legs were turned to metal and plastic. His blood 
vessels turned to copper wiring and his brain was 
integrated into the computer systems. From there, 
Arnold could open the rear ballast and close off 
the offending malfunction. The platform slowly 
returned to its normal floating position, and they 
weathered the rest of the storm together. 

Upon their return, the crew could not find 
Arnold and assumed he had been washed 
away in the high seas. They searched for his 
body for a week to no avail. He was listed as 
dead, and that was the end of it. Arnold was 
not dead, though. He was West Nautical 36, 

West Nautical 36 and he had an intimate understanding of the 
platform’s true purpose. The offshore drilling 
rig is a design of the God-Machine, a piece of 
Infrastructure built to drill into the sea floor 

returning while on shore leave, and volunteered for extra (to what purpose? Time will tell). Arnold now 
time offshore when possible. His time there led Arnold to controls that Infrastructure from the inside and will make 
know far more about the platform’s operation than any other sure the platform is never lost.
single crew member. Description: West Nautical 36 is a semi-submersible oil 

One evening, while Arnold was still working in the lab, platform in the North Sea. The platform absorbed Arnold 
a particularly nasty storm hit the platform. Under such cir- and, in a way, he gave himself over to it. Bits of Arnold 
cumstances, only essential crew was allowed to be out of their can still be seen within the engine room. There might be a 
quarters, but he was forgotten in the rounds. Arnold didn’t finger-shaped metal protrusion, or an oily gauge that looks 
seem to notice the storm until the ballast alarms started shriek- like a single brown eye. Arnold’s face is still visible just above 
ing to indicate an imbalance. Arnold left his lab in search of floor level on the engine bulkhead he was standing by when 
the engineering team to offer his aid. He could see that the the lightning struck. The crew does not enter that part of 
platform was listing slightly, and diverted to the ballast control the platform, and those that do are afraid to return. It can 
center instead. He joined the few engineers working to correct speak with Arnold’s mouth and communicate through the 
the list via manual override. Despite their best efforts, the ship’s computer system on the platform.
ballast controls were malfunctioning and the problem could Storytelling Hints: West Nautical 36 is fully aware of 
not be corrected. Several of the engineers began emergency its surroundings and of anyone stationed on the platform. 
evacuation procedures. Arnold refused to leave the platform The relationship between Arnold and West Nautical 36 is 
and stayed behind to attempt repairs. The engineers told him not one of host and parasite. Instead, they are one and the 
they would send someone back down to retrieve him once the same. Arnold is still a man, but he is also an oil platform. He 
lifeboats had been readied, but they never came back for him. thinks and speaks in that duality. Parts of Arnold are still flesh 
Arnold attempted several overrides for the ballast control from and blood, and if those parts are destroyed then he will die, 
the main control center of the platform, but these all failed. and so will West Nautical 36. This does not mean it would 
Amidst the driving rain and active lightning, Arnold watched fall apart and drop into the ocean; West Nautical 36 would 
in horror as the platform slowly began to tilt into the sea. simply cease to have sentience.

What happened that night is still a mystery to the crew of West Nautical 36 is the setting and main antagonist for 
West Nautical 36. Several lightning strikes on the platform’s the Tale Operation: Bell Jar (p. 221). 

252 
cogs in the machine-characters



Virtue: Loyal Willpower: 6
Vice: Territorial Size: 1 (small organic parts only)
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 4, Wits 3, Speed: n/a
Resolve 3 Defense: n/a
Physical Attributes: Strength 6, Dexterity 3, Initiative: 6
Stamina 6
Social Attributes: Armor: 5/4

Presence 1, Manipulation 2, 
Composure 3 Notes: West Nautical 36 is so large that damage 
Mental Skills: to any small part of it does not hurt the whole. Key 

Academics 2, Computer 3, systems are small and hard to access. Destroying 
Occult 2, Science (Geology) 5 the whole platform kills the entity it has become 
Physical Skills: Drive 2, Stealth 1, Weaponry (but that requires explosives). West Nautical 36 
(Mechanical Parts) 4 can make attacks with pieces of the platform as 
Social Skills: Intimidation 4 though they were +1 lethal damage weapons, 

and can make grappling attacks using electrical 
Merits: Danger Sense, Fighting Style: Improvised cables. Arnold’s heart is the only piece of him left 
Weaponry 2 intact. If it is destroyed, then West Nautical 36 
Health: 3 (small organic parts only) reverts to its original, non-sapient state.

ANGELS
The servitors of the God-Machine are called “angels,” but to harvest the spiritual energy from sacrifices. The Architect 

that by no means ascribes any benevolent or just motives to lived out its life as Hans Hoffmann, died of “natural causes,” 
them. The angels serve the God-Machine — and that is all they and then returned to whatever existence awaited it. If the char-
do. They come to Earth with a specific mission, they perform acters in the Tale manage to find and disrupt the boiler room, 
that mission, and they leave. Where do they go? Where do however, the Architect returns. Its mission, at that point, 
they come from? Only the God-Machine knows for sure. is to stop the characters from disrupting the arrangement. 

Angels have to work within Infrastructure. Most of the Description: The angel returns to Earth in the same 
time, angels receive human identities and names to facilitate guise it wore before: A middle-aged German man with gray-
their missions. Sometimes, the angel’s mission permits it ing brown hair, a slight limp in his left leg, a Masonic ring, 
to appear as a supernatural being (this is true of the Mirror 
Vulture, p. 260, for example). In either case, though, 
Infrastructure must be present for the angel to appear on 
Earth. 

The first angels in this section are all specifically designed Fallen Angels?
to be used with the Tales. The second set of angels are de- Is it possible, one might ask, for an angel to rebel? 
signed to be used with your own Tales, and as such they writ- Can a servant of the God-Machine, instead of 
ten to be more broadly accessible. If, for instance, you want fulfilling its mission and going home, being obliter-
to use the Lady in Red in your God-Machine chronicle, it ated, or whatever generally happens to angels, 
should be there to make sure two people meet each other. It’s choose to remain on Earth? 
there to make sure two very specific people, already named and If so, what happens? Does a new human identity 
included in the chronicle (and probably players’ characters) appear for the angel? Does the Infrastructure into 
meet. That may require you to change some of its methods, which the angel was created solidify, allowing the 
Numina, or traits, and that’s just fine. angel to become truly part of the human world? 

Does the angel retain its powers, or some measure 
THE ARCHITECT of them? Can the angel be truly called an “angel” 

anymore, or is another title (traditionally, “de-
mon”) more fitting? 

The 300 Block — p. 197 And if not, why does every angel intuitively know 
that part of its mission is “Do not betray your 

Mission: The Architect was originally created to design the mission?”
300 block. More specifically, it had the task of creating the 
boiler room that tied into the God-Machine and allowed it 

253 
Angels



From Left to Right:The Architect, Black Nathaniel,  
Blind Serpents, and Clockwork Servitor

and a pair of thick, horn-rimmed glasses. Its fingertips are Initiative: 12
stained with ink, and it leaves black fingerprints on whatever Armor: None
it touches. These prints fade from nonliving surfaces in sec- Numina: Left-Handed Spanner, Seek, Telekinesis
onds, but on flesh, they linger for weeks. 

Methods: The Architect is capable of violence, but it Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, 
would rather everyone agrees. It attempts to reason with the Twilight Form
characters first, as described in the Tale on p. 197. If the Max Essence: 15
characters take violent action, it defends the boiler room to Ban: Cannot leave the boiler room.
the best of its ability. The Architect retains his knowledge 
of buildings, is curious to see how the world has progressed Bane: A “missing persons” flier from one of the 

victims of the 300 block.
(and what has been done to the buildings it designed), and 
is an affable enough conversationalist if approached respect-
fully. Every now and then, though, it makes casual, almost BLACK NATHANIEL
businesslike, references to human sacrifice. 

Virtue: Amiable Ghost Machine — p. 207
Vice: Cold Mission: Black Nathaniel was created to oversee the 
Rank: 2 God-Machine’s directive to capture ghosts and bind them 

to machines. It has Reapers and Sowers assisting it in this 
Attributes: Power 4, Finesse 7, Resistance 5 mission (no traits are provided for these lesser angels, as they 
Influence: Boiler Room 2 Discorporate at any sign of hostility — they’re here to work, 
Corpus: 10 not to fight). Black Nathaniel is an immensely powerful an-
Willpower: 12 gel, but acts in a managerial role. It finds pockets of ghostly 

activity and summons its minion angels. It also deals with 
Size: 5 anyone making trouble for the mission. Unlike some angels, 
Speed: 16 Black Nathaniel is utterly loyal to the God-Machine, and not 
Defense: 4 above trying to make some extra ghosts if people interfere. 

254 
cogs in the machine-characters



Description: Black Nathaniel is an angel, and looks the Methods: The Blind Serpents do not fear death. They 
part. It is nearly seven feet tall, lean, and muscular. It wears do not fear at all, in fact. They are near mindless and have 
black pants, but doesn’t bother with any other clothes. It very little agency of their own. They are, however, capable 
sports enormous black wings, and wears a silver chain orna- of performing basic medical care (again, influence from 
mented with a small piece of glass around his neck. its voice Triage), but the only do so for characters that stand a good 
is quiet, but carries grave authority. chance of surviving. They are much more effective at kill-

Methods: Unlike many angels, Black Nathaniel has no ing than saving.
time for subtlety. It flies throughout the region searching  
for ghosts, and then summons its minions to bind them. Virtue: Obedient
It doesn’t make an effort to hide itself, but because it seeks Vice: Blind
out haunted sites (which tend to be somewhat isolated), it’s 
managed to implant a good number of unquiet dead into Mental Attributes: Intelligence 1, Wits 3, 
mechanical devices without anyone noticing. It doesn’t have Resolve 4
a problem with investigators, but if someone starts making Physical Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, 
progress on reversing the process, it intervenes. Stamina 3

Social Attributes: Presence 1, Manipulation 1, 
Virtue: Severe Composure 3
Vice: Gentle Mental Skills: Medicine 1
Rank: 5 Physical Skills: Athletics (Sinewy) 3, Brawl 3, 
Attributes: Power 13, Finesse 11, Resistance 12 Firearms 3, Weaponry 3

Influence: Death 2, Ghosts 2, Silence 1 Social Skills: Animal Ken 2

Corpus: 18 Merits: Danger Sense, Fast Reflexes 2, [Two dots 
of any Style Merit the Storyteller chooses]

Willpower: 23 Health: 8
Size: 6 Willpower: 7
Speed: 34 Size: 5
Defense: 11 Speed: 12 
Initiative: 23 Defense: 6
Armor: None Initiative: 8
Numina: Awe, Blast (silver chains), Emotional 
Aura, Firestarter, Regenerate, Resurrection, Seek, 
Speed CLOCKWORK SERVITORS
Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, 
Twilight Form

The Invisible Citadel — p. 219;  
Max Essence: 50 A Glimpse of Mesmerizing Complexity — p. 216
Ban: Black Nathaniel cannot enter graveyards. 

Mission: These creatures are specifically made as guards 
Bane: White marble. who protect locations and devices that are important to the 

God-Machine’s plans. Every clockwork servitor exists to pro-
BLIND SERPENTS tect a specific target, and it does so at all costs. If the target 

is destroyed or ceases to be useful to the God-Machine, the 
clockwork servitor becomes dormant, but Dalga can give it a 

What Is It Good For — p. 233 new assignment. Each specific assignment is different. Some 
servitors protect their charge from all interference, while 

Mission: The Blind Serpents are the near-mindless ser- others allow people who know a particular password to ac-
vants of Triage (p. 264). Their mission is whatever Triage says cess a location or device. A few do nothing unless someone 
it is, but it usually involves killing people before they can alter attempts to damage their charge.
history in some grandiose way. Description: Clockwork servitors look human, until 

Description: These creatures appear as men, though their one sees them up close. They are created from a mishmash 
true forms are man-sized snakes with the heads of lions that of metal parts and organic matter. One might have human 
have milky, blind eyes. They take on the roles of background eyes, but set in a wire and glass head. Another might have 
characters — other soldiers, corpses littering the battlefield, an organic right hand, but a left hand made of transparent 
and so on — until Triage gives them an order. Then they take plastic covering human bones. Clockworks cannot pass for 
on their true forms and attack. human for any length of time. 

255 
Angels



Methods: Clockworks do not require nutri-
tion, sleep, or power. They are sustained by their 
relationship to the Dalga, and they, in turn, pro-
vide raw material and sustenance to the grotesque 
creatures. Most clockworks are not intelligent 
enough to form complicated plans, but they do 
demonstrate some problem-solving skills and, if 
given time to consider a problem, they can often 
solve it, provided it doesn’t call for specialized 
knowledge. A group of clockworks might be able 
to figure out how to break into a fortified build-
ing, for instance, but they won’t be able to set 
a bomb to blow the door in (though the Dalga 
could probably rig a clockwork with explosives). 

Intelligent clockwork servitors can speak 
in a clicking, mechanical-sounding voice and 
understand all human languages. Each one was 
created using the brain of an individual human 
as a template. If confronted with someone that 
this person knew well, the clockwork servitor 
may display bits of the person’s knowledge, like 
knowing the individual’s name and some bits of 
personal information or asking questions of the 
sort that the person used to ask this individual. 

Some clockwork servitors keep everyone from 
getting close to the place or object they are protect-
ing. However, others are created with a specific 
password that causes them to allow the person 
who speaks it to interact with the clockwork’s 
charge. These clockwork servitors ask the person 
for the password. Clockwork servitors always ask 
intruders to depart before attacking. Armor: 2

*Clockwork servitors are slightly slower than 
Virtue: Loyal people. 
Vice: Compulsive Notes: Many clockworks have special abilities. 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 1, Wits 3, Some suggestions include: 
Resolve 5 •	Enhanced Strength: Strength is 7, Speed is 
Physical Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, 13
Stamina 4 •	Protective Coloring: If the clockwork 
Social Attributes: Presence 1, Manipulation 1, remains perfectly still, observers receive a -2 
Composure 4 modifier to see it.

Mental Skills: Crafts (Clockwork) 2 •	Enhanced Speed: Defense is 6, Initiative is 
10, Speed is 12

Physical Skills: Athletics 3, Brawl (Grappling) 4, 
Firearms 2, Stealth 1, Weaponry 3 •	Claws: 0 lethal hand damage

Social Skills: None
Merits: Demolisher, Grappling 2, Iron Stamina 3 DALGA:  
Health: 9 THE CREATORS  
Willpower: 9 OF SERVITORS
Size: 5
Speed: 10* The Invisible Citadel — p. 219
Defense: 4* Mission: Dalga exist to create various inhuman servants 
Initiative: 5* for the God-Machine. Dalga appear in places where the 

God-Machine determines that such servants would be useful. 

256 
cogs in the machine-characters



Today, there are more than a dozen Dalga used all across Dalga are good for injecting a healthy dose of body horror into 
the world. They are almost immobile, but are defended by your God-Machine chronicle, and for creating physical threats for 
specialized servitors that they create, and which they control characters to face. Angels, after all, can usually just discorporate 
like puppets. and escape from a losing fight. A Dalga’s servants fight to the bitter 

Description: Dalga always appears as ivory-colored eggs end and, if the characters pay attention, they’ll see smaller servants 
the size of a grapefruit. They soon hatch into fist-sized spiders picking up the pieces to take back to their immense “mother.” 
that grows rapidly. A full-grown Dalga can be the size of a bus, 
but by this time it is too large and bloated to require or use Virtue: Loving
legs, so its limbs become shriveled and vestigial. Vice: Hungry

Methods: Dalga must be fed organic material and a wide 
assortment of metal parts, including wire, springs, gears, Mental Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 2, Resolve 4
pieces of sheet metal, screws, and bolts. Dalga must also be Physical Attributes: Strength 6, Dexterity 5*, 
tended by at least five personal servitors. A Dalga creates the Stamina 6
first group of these servitors within two days of hatching. Social Attributes: Presence 1, Manipulation 2, 
These first servants are usually clockwork humanoids between Composure 5
12 and 18 inches tall. Dalga grow rapidly, and build larger Mental Skills: Crafts (Servitors) 5, Medicine 3, 
servitors every few weeks, eating the old ones for parts. By Occult 4
the time they are three months old, they create servants the Physical Skills: Brawl 5
size of adult humans. Dalga can only survive for a few days 
without food, and by the time they are large enough to create Social Skills: Expression 3, Intimidation 4, 
adult-sized creations, they are immobile. If all of its servants Persuasion 1
are killed, a Dalga starves to death. *The Dalga are largely immobile, but their 

To create relatively simple-minded servitors, Dalga require Dexterity applies to fine manipulation. 
the heads or brains of recently-dead animals to serve as a Merits: Iron Stamina 3
neural template for their clockwork creations. These heads Health: 24
must be no more than a day old. Servitors created in this way 
follow clear and relatively simple orders without question. Willpower: 9
To create an intelligent servitor capable of following complex Integrity: 5 (A Dalga is alive and sapient, and 
orders, Dalga must use a living human as a template. can suffer breaking points if forced to witness its 

A Dalga can give all of its servitors special abilities, like servitors being destroyed.)
inhuman levels of strength or the ability to change their skin Size: 18 (full grown)
color to blend with surroundings. It can give each servitor up Speed: 1 (A Dalga can lurch along incredibly 
to two special abilities. Most people Dalga use to create an slowly when full grown.)
intelligent servitor die horribly as Dalga scan their brain and 
use them to create the clockwork servitor’s mind. If it finds a Defense: 0
brain particularly intriguing, it instead removes the person’s Initiative: 10
limbs and replaces them with clockwork fixtures, turning the Armor: 5
unfortunate person into a kind of hideous cyborg. 

Dalga are creations of the God-Machine, but they are not 
actually angels. They don’t return to the God-Machine when EMILIO RUBIO
their mission is complete, they simply starve to death (or they 
don’t, and keep creating servants in some underground lair 
somewhere, which would be an interesting basis for a Tale). Wellington School for Gifted Children — p. 205
As such, their traits reflect their material nature. Mission: Emilio’s mission is to discover what is prevent-

Dalga are hideous, appearing like large and horribly- ing the God-Machine from seeing or influencing the inside 
bloated spiders with distorted human faces. They wrap the of the Wellington School. Since the strange effect blocking 
brains or bodies that people give them in silk and then use the God-Machine weakens it as well, however, it is relying on 
their complex, tool-like mouthparts to scan and dissect the the characters to bring it data. 
brains. Afterwards, they devour the brains and sculpt their Description: Emilio has taken the form of a young 
clockwork servitors from metal that they work with their Hispanic man in his mid-20s. Emilio has black hair, a pleas-
many strong legs, and silk that they can form into a strange, ant smile, perfectly white teeth and a vague scent of tobacco 
pale material like fiberglass. Dalga need approximately two about it (though no one ever sees him smoke). It drives a 
hours to create a single clockwork servitor. Dalga cannot silver van with the Edu Tech logo on the side, and speaks with 
speak directly. Instead, they communicate through their servi- a slight Hispanic accent, though it does not actually speak 
tors, who all speak simultaneously in a uniform and entirely Spanish, which the characters could use to expose it as an 
emotionless monotone. They can also speak through nearby angel. If someone addresses it directly in Spanish, Emilio’s 
people and do so if their servants are not present. eyes change into thick, gray smoke. 

257 
Angels



From Left to Right: Emilio Rubio, Grief, Jenn and Kalka.

Methods: Emilio’s initial approach is to make its weekly Armor: None
deliveries and get friendly with the characters, hoping that they Numina: Blast (concussive, smoky air), Dement, 
can discover what is so special about Wellington and tell it. That Emotional Aura, Hallucination, Telekinesis
isn’t likely to happen, however (even if they do figure it out, there’s Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, 
no particular reason they’d share it with Emilio), and so Emilio Possess, Twilight Form
changes tactics. It possesses visiting parents or other adults outside 
the school and causes chaos. It starts by using his Numina to fake Max Essence: 20
ghost activity, but if it can’t figure out what’s going on quickly, it Ban: If someone speaks to it in Spanish, Emilio 
ups the ante by killing someone (student or staff, it doesn’t mat- recoils and its eyes change as described above.
ter to it). Its plan is, perhaps, to draw enough attention to the Bane: Anything it’s run over in the van.
supernatural aspects of the place that someone figures out what 
is happening, but in truth, Emilio gets so confused while it’s on 
school grounds that it really doesn’t act with much logic. GRIEF

Virtue: Punctual
Vice: Cheerful The Key — p. 208
Rank: 2 Mission: Grief is a messenger. It delivers orders to 
Attributes: Power 3, Finesse 5, Resistance 4 Wesley Cote, the so-called Key, and tells him whom to kill. 
Influence: Conversation 1, Van 1 Cote can slip through time and space, and is not bound by 

Corpus: 9 Infrastructure the way an angel is. Cote is the Infrastructure 
that allows Grief to manifest, meaning if Cote dies, Grief 

Willpower: 9 doesn’t return to Earth. 
Size: 5 Description: Grief appears as a slender man in his late 
Speed: 13 teens, wearing black jeans, a black hoodie, and bright blue 

sneakers. Its bright green eyes are constantly wet with tears. 
Defense: 3 Grief doesn’t speak to Cote, but if another character were to 
Initiative: 9 approach it gently and carefully, he might converse. 

258 
cogs in the machine-characters



Methods: Grief usually steps out of mirrors or from (and it never accepts offers of dates from the clientele). It is 
around corners and gets Cote’s attention to with a nod, and very interested in music and in human regret; since it’s not, 
then passes him a piece of paper with the name, address, and for the most part, responsible for its own decisions, it doesn’t 
a few details. It then wanders away silently, vanishing into the understand how one could come to feel remorse for one.
shadows. Grief doesn’t fight, and discorporates if attacked.

Virtue: Efficient
Virtue: Sad Vice: Chatty
Vice: Silent Rank: 2
Rank: 1 Attributes: Power 3, Finesse 5, Resistance 5
Attributes: Power 2, Finesse 3, Resistance 2 Influence: The Diner 2
Influence: Grief 1 Corpus: 10
Corpus: 7 Willpower: 10
Willpower: 5 Size: 5
Size: 5 Speed: 13
Speed: 10 Defense: 3
Defense: 3 Initiative: 10
Initiative: 5 Armor: None
Armor: None Numina: Innocuous, Mortal Mask, Rapture
Numina: Mortal Mask Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, 
Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, Twilight Form
Twilight Form Max Essence: 15
Max Essence: 10 Ban: Jenn cannot refuse a request for a cup of 
Ban: Grief cannot use its Numina on smiling coffee. Even during a fight, if someone asks for 
people. one (politely), it has to procure it.
Bane: Ashes.

KALKA
JENN

The Hatching — p. 226
Do-Over — p. 199 Mission: Kalka is perhaps the most unusual of the God-

Mission: Jenn’s function is to watch over the 24-hour diner Machine’s angels. It exists outside of time, created as a failsafe 
that contains the time-reversal technology and make sure that in case the God-Machine is no longer able to send angels 
no one disrupts it. It’s not interested in preventing use of the to enforce its will. In the Tale called The Hatching, this is 
room, just damage to it. It is also in place to prevent use of the exactly what happens, and so Kalka is “activated,” sent to 
room to change history on too great a scale. Since people can help the characters.  
only travel back in time to the location of one of their greatest Description: Kalka appears as a faint, human-shaped, 
regrets, and only for a few hours, this doesn’t come up often. blue-white glow that slowly fades into visibility, and then takes 
But if the parent of a child killed in a school shooting attempted the form of a man in his 70s. Kalka walks with a purposeful 
to use the room to prevent the incident from happening, Jenn stride, and speaks with a gentle, but commanding, voice. 
would have to stop him, because the shooting was widely Methods: Once is appears, it can only remain on Earth for 
reported and became part of the cultural understanding very 71 minutes. During this time, it is willing to answer whatever 
quickly. If, however, he only intended to keep his own child questions it can for the characters. How much Kalka knows 
home from school, Jenn probably wouldn’t interfere. about the situation with the Statue and how much it can help 

Description: Jenn appears as a woman in her 20s, with is up to the Storyteller. If the characters need the help, Kalka 
blond hair tied back in a ponytail, a diverse collection of might be able to give them very specific guidelines. If they 
t-shirts advertising bands that were popular 15 years ago, don’t, maybe it just gives them hints, or it tries to give them 
and a tattoo on each wrist. If asked, it says the tattoos are explicit instructions but stutters through time (meaning the 
for its parents, but they are actually occult symbols helping characters only get every third word or so). 
cement its identity. Kalka is a plot device, not an antagonist. It never really ex-

Methods: Jenn’s role is largely a passive one, so it just pected to be needed, though, so Kalka occasionally “peeks” in 
watches people. It knows the diner inside and out, and it on humanity. This means that if you’re using a chronicle track 
knows the regulars by name. It stays friendly, but detached that doesn’t include The Hatching, you might considering 

259 
Angels



having Kalka appear in mirrors or behind corners occasion- Discorporate, and wait 24 hours before reappear-
ally, just out of interest in who these people are. ing (this limitation prevents it from entering the time 

stream twice at the same point). 
Virtue: Patient Bane: Digital alarm clock sounds. 
Vice: Curious
Rank: 2 MIRROR VULTURE
Attributes: Power 5, Finesse 6, Resistance 4
Influence: Time 1, Patience 1 Wake the Dead — p. 214
Corpus: 9 Mission: Some people die before their time. They die 
Willpower: 10 by horrible accident or murder and everyone says it was 
Size: 5 before their time, or that they were too young to die. The 
Speed: 16 God-Machine couldn’t agree more, and since time is of the 

essence, it has sent the Mirror Vulture to find the man who 
Defense: 5 died before his time. The Mirror Vulture is anything but 
Initiative: 10 subtle, but it can cover a large amount of ground quickly. 
Armor: None Description: The Mirror Vulture is an immense carrion 

Numina: Fate Sense, Hallucination, Innocuous, bird, with a wingspan wider than most SUVs. Its feathers are 
Omen Trance, Sign made from dusky, mirrored glass, and its talons are metal that 

carries an intense, though not fatal, heat. Its eyes are silver 
Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, and reflective, but it has perfect eyesight. 
Twilight Form Methods: The Mirror Vulture is looking for Lucien 
Max Essence: 15 McJack (see p. 244), but Lucien isn’t really himself anymore. 
Ban: Kalka can only remain Materialize or in As such, the Vulture only knows it’s looking for a person 
Twilight for 71 minutes at a time. It must then that died and then revived, so it’s flying around the area of 

Lucien’s death grabbing up the walking corpses, 
examining them, and then releasing them. It 
doesn’t really care about the walking dead; its 
mission is to find McJack as quickly as possible. 

The Vulture is aloof and animal-like; it bobs 
its head like a bird and isn’t above “feasting” 
on the carcass of a fresh kill. Of course, the 
angel being what it is, its favorite “fresh kill” is a 
newly-wrecked car. It is capable of human speech 
and is reasonably intelligent, though it will only 
converse with a person if it thinks the person can 
help it on its mission. It is capable of combat, but 
it would rather fly away if attacked. 

Virtue: Precise
Vice: Hungry
Rank: 3
Attributes: Power 6, Finesse 4, 
Resistance 5
Influence: Death 3
Corpus: 11
Willpower: 11
Size: 6
Speed: 20
Defense: 6
Initiative: 9
Armor: None

260 
cogs in the machine-characters



From Left to Right: Polis Men, Mr. Nose, Officer Strait, and Rasha

Numina: Blast (feathers), Essence Thief, its disposal, but it does have the ear of a president, and the 
Regenerate, Seek, Speed protection of his security force. Its job is almost complete. 
Manifestation: Materialize, Twilight Form Nose does not actually care about what people do. It only 

Max Essence: 20 recognizes two conditions of humanity: alive and dead. Its 
mission is to urge people to make other people dead. It’s re-

Ban: If the Mirror Vulture hears or sees a car ally as simple as that. For all that it appears unctuous, loyal 
crash, it must investigate. to the president, and human (albeit an unpleasant human) 
Bane: Roadkill (animals only). it’s really just doing its job.

 

MR. NOSE Virtue: Innocuous
Vice: Inappropriate
Rank: 4

Proposition 279 — p. 223 Attributes: Power 4, Finesse 12, Resistance 5
Mission: Human nature is not inherently violent. While Influence: Authority 1, Murder 3

most people can be territorial and possessive, violence for the 
sake of violence is not natural for most people. Nose needs Corpus: 10
to change that — it’s charged with creating mass murder, and Willpower: 17
the vehicle it’s chosen is homophobia. Size: 5

Description: Mr. Nose is short, sallow and gloomy. Its 
nose is pointed and prominent, and its eyes are just a little Speed: 21
too deep set. It stands too close to people when talking, and Defense: 4
its breath always smells vaguely of raw onion. Initiative: 17

Methods: Nose has attached itself to the president of a Armor: None
conservative nation, and filled his mind with anger, hate, 
and zealotry. The country has followed along nicely. Nose Numina: Aggressive Meme, Awe, Emotional 
doesn’t have much in the way of raw supernatural power at Aura, Drain, Hallucination, Rapture

261 
Angels



Manifestation: Materialize, Twilight Form Max Essence: 20
Max Essence: 25 Ban: Strait must follow police procedures as long 
Ban: Nose shows up in photographs no matter as it maintains this identity.
what state of manifestation it is currently in. Bane: Doughnuts (they represent the comical, ab-
Bane: Latex. surd perception of law enforcement, and as such 

can damage its Infrastructure).

OFFICER STRAIT POLIS MEN

The Squares of the City — p. 203
Sister City — p. 201

Mission: Officer Strait was created with the task of facili-
tating the rearrangement and editing of the city in the Tale, Mission: The Polis Men are angels locked into the city of Seattle 

The Squares of the City. Its primary task is keeping people itself — both versions, in fact. Their task is to keep the cities separate, 

off the streets at night so that they don’t witness the build- and to eliminate anyone that can cross between them. As the cities 

ings shifting around — until the characters become involved. merge, this might become impossible, but the Polis Men don’t have 

When they start looking into the matter and (worse) find much in the way of agency or free will. They continue following 

the rails beneath the city, Strait appears to warn them off. their orders until the cities either merge or are separated completely. 

Description: Officer Strait appears as a black man in his Description: The Polis Men are part of the city. They appear 

early 30s, who wears a police uniform appropriate to the city from wrought-iron fences, chalk drawings on sidewalk, statues, 

in question, but has a patch on his jacket with an intricate, geo- graffiti, and billboards. As such, they can resemble almost any-

metric symbol that other policemen don’t recognize (or even thing. The angels are not actually animating statues or artwork, 

acknowledge, unless it is pointed out to them). This symbol is just borrowing their forms temporarily. In their natural forms, Polis 

a mystical emblem that helps cement Strait in its role as a cop. Men are humanoid, featureless, and an ugly grayish-green color.

Methods: Strait isn’t an unpleasant fellow, and actu- Methods: These angels aren’t subtle. They chase down 

ally performs its job as a cop with enthusiasm and aplomb. offenders and beat them to death with chunks of sidewalk, 

However, it is not a human being. It’s an angel, and that throw them into traffic or off of buildings, and otherwise use 

means the mission comes first. Its primary concern is keeping the city itself to kill them. They do not speak and they do 

people away from the rails and keeping them from witnessing not respond to reason. If their quarry escapes (see the chase 

moving buildings at night, and if those orders conflict with rules on p.84) they merge with the city and wait.

“protect and serve,” the orders win out…at least initially.  

Strait prefers to avoid violence, but is willing to arrest Virtue: Observant
people and let the courts take care of the problem. It’s also Vice: Violent
willing to shoot people, if necessary, but it’ll dutifully fill out Rank: 1
the paperwork afterwards. Attributes: Power 4, Finesse 4, Resistance 3

Virtue: Just Influence: Seattle 1
Vice: Procedural Corpus: 8
Rank: 2 Willpower: 7
Attributes: Power 6, Finesse 5, Resistance 5 Size: 5
Influence: Streets 2 Speed: 13
Corpus: 10 Defense: 4
Willpower: 10 Initiative: 7
Size: 5 Armor: 1
Speed: 15 Numina: Blast, Essence Thief, Firestarter
Defense: 5 Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, 

Twilight Form 
Initiative: 10

Max Essence: 10
Armor: Bulletproof vest 1/3 Numina: Left-
Handed Spanner, Seek, Speed Ban: Polis Men can be commanded to stand 

down by anyone holding a Seattle (or Old 
Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, Seattle, depending on where the altercation takes 
Twilight Form place) police badge. 

Bane: Out-of-state license plate.

262 
cogs in the machine-characters



Max Essence: 50
RASHA Ban: Rasha can only Manifest within five feet of a 

power line or another strong source of electricity. 
Bane: Sound above 20,000 hertz, produced at 

Urban Wandering — p. 235 a volume of at least 85 decibels. 
Mission: Rasha is charged with preventing threats to 

the God-Machine’s plans. It acts by delivering warnings to SEROTONIN
people that are in a position to act upon them. It regularly 
delivers warnings to ordinary people who can prevent the 
threat, often despite the fact that they have no idea that The Scarlet Plague — p. 225
they are performing an important action that helps protect 
one of the God-Machine’s plans. It is also capable, however, Mission: Serotonin is named after the hormone found 
of acting more directly (as it does in the Urban Wandering in animals which regulates mood, appetite, and sleep. It is 
Tale). Rasha is unusual in that the God-Machine calls it into charged with beginning the plague that will end humanity, 
service fairly frequently. and it has wide latitude to do that. Its mission does not end, 

Description: Rasha normally appears as a nondescript hu- however, until humanity is no longer capable of sustaining 
man being, of age, appearance, and mannerism appropriate itself. 
to the circumstance. In especially dire circumstances, Rasha Description: In its natural form, Serotonin is a roughly 
can abandon subtlety and briefly appear as an obviously non- human-sized distortion in the air, nearly invisible, odorless, 
human creature. In this form, Rasha is a humanoid figure and silent. The characters will probably encounter it while it 
with immense, liquid-mercury wings. Rasha cannot speak has possessed a scientist, however. When Serotonin possesses 
in this form, but it can cause images to appear in its wings. a person, it alters the person’s eyes so that the coloration in 

Methods: Rasha attempts to perform its missions using their iris fades, resulting in abnormally-pale eyes.
subtle means, like dropping a pen to attract a security guard’s Methods: Serotonin is sent into the world in the midst 
attention to the burglar breaking into the building the guard of the creation and use of drugs. Scientists working for large 
is protecting. Rasha’s primary limitation is that it can only pharmaceutical companies often create experimental drugs 
appear directly above or beneath electrical lines carrying and study them on small rodents. These drugs are usually 
power to buildings. unknown factors in otherwise-controlled situations. The 

The angel is quiet and always calm. It normally only creation of these drugs, especially when done by accident 
speaks if spoken to. It is capable of casual conversation, but or with untested chemicals creates an Infrastructure for 
its conversation strikes most people as slightly unusual, be- Serotonin to enter the world. 
cause it always looks like it is ready to respond to questions Serotonin does not have a specific human form — it needs 
just before the person asks them and it keeps all answers as to be mobile, which means it can’t get locked down. It most 
short as possible. often possesses someone who has already been working for a 

drug company for years and has some kind of seniority. The 
Virtue: Reliable God-Machine’s disease is already at hand for Serotonin, it 

just has to get it into circulation. 
Vice: Silent Creating a need for the drug takes some creativity. Just 
Rank: 5 like vitamin D is added to milk and iodine is added to table 
Attributes: Power 10, Finesse 15, Resistance 13 salt to prevent well-known deficiency diseases, Serotonin 
Influence: Time 1, Electricity 3, Warning 1 works to have the drug added to a commonly-used staple in 

response to an artificial requirement. The specifics of the drug 
Corpus: 18 delivery are left to the Storyteller; the Tale assumes that the 
Willpower: 28 disease is already in full force, and so the delivery method is 
Size: 5 only important insofar as it might provide some insight into 

Speed: 30 why it’s happening. 
Serotonin has an austere and clinical mindset. It makes a 

Defense: 10 plan and sticks with it, and its biggest weakness is its inability 
Initiative: 28 to adapt quickly to change. It picks a person to take over and 
Armor: None uses that body’s clout and station to get most everything done. 

Success of the mission depends on its ability to maintain 
Numina: Aggressive Meme, Awe, Blast (shat-
tered glass), Emotional Aura, Fate Sense, Implant the personality it is mimicking. Revealing Serotonin as an 

Mission, Innocuous, Mortal Mask, Pathfinder, imposter is the fastest way to hinder its work. It is also the 
Sign fastest way to make it an enemy. For the most part, it will 

ignore anyone that isn’t key to completing its mission. If it 
Manifestation: Discorporate, Materialize, realizes that people know it is supernatural or an imposter, 
Twilight Form it will attempt to eliminate them. Serotonin is not as smart 

263 
Angels



From Left to Right: Triage, Serotonin, The Candle Maker, and The Lady in Red.

as the person it has taken the place of, and depends on its Ban: Serotonin cannot use its Numina against 
influence over the minds of others to fit in. It can be tricked anyone already infected with the disease.
into revealing itself if done in the right way. Bane: The specific serotonin antagonist drug, 

ondansetron, injected at 5 cc.
Virtue: Precise Bane: Tears.
Vice: Silent
Rank: 4 TRIAGE
Attributes: Power 8, Finesse 11, Resistance 10
Influence: Drugs 2, Disease 2

What Is It Good For — p. 233
Corpus: 15
Willpower: 21 Mission: Triage appears during What Is It Good For after 

the characters have shifted in time once. Its mission is simply 
Size: 5 to determine whether it’s worth the God-Machine’s time and 
Speed: 29 energy to correct the problem. Otherwise, the characters will just 
Defense: 8 keep slipping from battle to battle until they find a way out on 

their own. Going into the Tale, Triage leans toward the charac-
Initiative: 21 ters finding their own way home. Weighed against the number 
Armor: None of battles and the fact that they can’t die permanently, Triage’s 
Numina: Aggressive Meme, Dement, Fate initial idea is just to leave the Blind Serpents around to make 
Sense, Host Jump, Implant Mission, Innocuous, sure that the characters don’t change anything too important. 
Rapture Description: Triage doesn’t Materialize, though it can 
Manifestation: Discorporate, Possess, Reaching, become visible if the characters want to converse. Triage takes 
Twilight Form the form of a gigantic lion, nearly the size of a tank, with 

Max Essence: 25 metallic claws and a deep, rumbling voice. Its fur looks like 
sharp steel bristles and its teeth are enormous rifle rounds. 

264 
cogs in the machine-characters



Methods: Triage, as its name suggests, was created to make ephemeral being. If the characters want to convince it to send 
an efficient decision. As such, it’s not hostile or cruel, but it them home, they need to use the Social Maneuvering rules 
doesn’t have a better nature or a shred of humanity. It listens (p. 81) and accumulate six Doors. 
patiently to whatever the characters want to say, but it doesn’t 
tell them about the God-Machine or any of the deeper truths Virtue: Efficient
to their situation. It does tell them about the Flag of Elam, if Vice: Leonine
they ask, and agrees to let them use it to go home provided 
they can do so without violating any historical events. If the Rank: 6
characters attempt to change the outcome of a battle or kill Ban: Triage cannot watch suffering. If someone 
an important historical figure (Hitler, Robert E. Lee, Patton, is physically suffering, it must leave the area and 
etc.), it sends the Blind Serpents to stop them. help the sufferer or send the Blind Serpents to kill 

Note: Triage is a very powerful angel and, as such, does him. Triage, naturally, always does what is most 
not have traits. It has a Virtue and Vice to act as a guide efficient. 
to how to portray it, and it has a Ban and a Bane like any Bane: Fur of a black lion.

YOUR OWN ANGELS
The angels below aren’t designed for the Tales of the ensure that the combustion and burning is in a highly public 

God-Machine, which means their missions are a bit more space. Either way, the Candle Maker would not want to miss 
generalized. Feel to customize whatever parts of them you the most opportune moment to start its human fire show. 
need to in order to make them work in your chronicle. The Usually, the victim starts with a slow burn, and then erupts 
God-Machine does the same thing before sending angels into fire. This kind of fire doesn’t immediately kill the person, 
out, after all. and can leave them screaming in pain for several minutes. 

The person must burn for several hours for the mission 
THE CANDLE MAKER to be completed properly. If anyone attempts to put the fire 

out, The Candle Maker must make sure the fire doesn’t just 
stay, but catches and spreads.

Humans burn the brightest. The Candle Maker does not have a physical form, but its 
Mission: Human fat burns for a long time, releasing lots passing can be marked by a rise in the ambient temperature 

of heat and energy. Sometimes the God-Machine needs to and the smell of smoke. Fires burn hotter and brighter in its 
harness this energy. The Candle Maker’s job is to harness presence and candle flames jump and flicker in response. 
and release this energy when the God-Machine needs it the Because The Candle Maker must take so much time trying 
most. He has three days to locate the perfect human specimen to find the right person to burn, it is often very close to the 
and render its fat to tallow to burn for the God-Machine. end of its three days before it starts a fire. Extreme cold and 

Methods: The God-Machine sends the Candle Maker fire suppressants will force the Candle Maker to abandon 
into the world just before specific events that require extra the area. Using specially designed fire-fighting devices 
energy. Often it is an enabler for the creation of necessary such as chemical compounds found in fire extinguishers 
Infrastructure, or to be part of the Infrastructure to bring or physical suffocation, as from fire blankets, could cause 
larger and more complex angels to a specific place in the a large enough setback to prevent it from completing its 
world. The God-Machine utilizes oil-burning lanterns or mission entirely. 
glycerol candles to send the Candle Maker to Earth.

The Candle Maker takes its mission very seriously. The Virtue: Intent
circumstances of the burning and the person are both im- Vice: Patient
portant to its specific mission. Finding the right person is a Rank: 2
matter of finding the qualities required by the God-Machine. Attributes: Power 3, Finesse 2, Resistance 4
It might need someone with a specific emotional profile, such 
as someone who is depressed because they just lost a loved one, Influence: Fire 2
or it might just be someone with a specific body type, such as Corpus: 8
young and plump. Sometimes the God-Machine just needs Willpower: 7
the energy of the fire, and the person is burned at the most 
opportune moment for the harness of the energy. Sometimes, Size: 4
the fire must induce fear in others, and the Candle Maker must Speed: 15

265 
Your Own Angels



Defense: 3 seduce the partner of one of the lovers, causing them to turn 
Initiative: 6 to their new friend for comfort. She might also introduce an 

Armor: None old flame or someone more appealing to the partner to lure 
them away from her lovers. 

Numina: Drain, Firestarter, Telekinesis The Lady in Red is completely sure of herself. She is 
Manifestations: Twilight Form, Fetter, Reaching prideful, arrogant and has no compassion for humanity. 
Max Essence: 15 She freely admits that she is a supernatural being if asked 

directly. She is willing to kill or maim anyone who gets in 
Ban: The Candle Maker cannot use its Numina 
in temperatures below 32 degrees Fahrenheit (the her way. She does not like delays, and will attempt to shorten 

freezing point). a conversation or just leave if it does not relate directly to 
completing her mission. 

Bane: Ceramic. The Lady’s arrogance is her downfall. She is so sure of her 
capabilities that she cannot imagine failure. Unfortunately 

THE LADY IN RED for her, she is neither omniscient nor infallible. Her machi-
nations and pushing and pulling can easily fail, especially if 
her targets find out that their circumstances are forced or 

Lust’s handmaiden happen to have a strong bond to their current partner. If one 
Mission: The Lady in Red is supposed to make sure that two of the two lovers remains with their current spouse, then her 

lovers meet and fall in love. While this sounds generally innocu- mission will fail. Also, while the Lady is supernatural, she 
ous, these lovers are usually people who are already living fulfilling is trapped in a mortal shell. She can be banished by killing 
lives with a spouse and sometimes children. the body she inhabits.

The Lady in Red has two weeks to introduce her victims, 
have them fall in love and then convince them to leave their Virtue: Attentive
previous lives for each other. She finds this easiest when those Vice: Cruel
previous ties are cut out completely. Family, relations and Rank: 2
friends are inconsequential to the end result and so they are 
all fair game once The Lady has her lovers in sight. Attributes: Power 3, Finesse 4, Resistance 3

Description: The Lady in Red is always beautiful, always Influence: Desire 2
seductive, and she always wears red. Beyond that, she can Corpus: 8
play a young coquette, a teen waif, a mother of three with a Willpower: 6
kinky side, an older woman with appetites — it doesn’t matter 
to her, of course, as long as she brings her targets together. Size: 5

Methods: Infidelity and lies are the vehicles used by Speed: 12
the God-Machine to send The Lady in Red to Earth. Her Defense: 4
largest hurdle is finding the two lovers she is supposed to 
connect. She has names and a location, but not much else. Initiative: 6
Most people are easy to look up in a phone book and social Armor: None
media is easy to access from public computers. Once she has Numina: Emotional Aura, Hallucination, Mortal 
found the two, she has to get them to meet, which is often Mask
an easy task. She causes a delay in a line at a shop where Manifestation: Manifestation, Possess, Twilight 
they might have otherwise missed one another. She might Form
even intentionally cause a car wreck between them, forcing Max Essence: 15
them to interact. She finds the easiest way is to have them 
bump into one another by what seems to be chance. The last Ban: The Lady in Red must flee if she encounters 
task is to make sure that they decide to be with one another anyone who knows true love.
over their current relationship. This is where The Lady in Bane: Roses
Red takes the most active role. Her preferred method is to 

266 
cogs in the machine-characters



The Mirror People
“Look at me.”

Background: You’ve been told that mirrors work How many things within arm’s reach can reflect your 
on principles of reflected light. Maybe, if you’re of image? A bedroom mirror? Your smartphone? What 
a superstitious bent, you believe they show you your about the glass fronting that framed photo of your 
soul. Maybe you’ve heard that breaking a mirror family? Once you’ve got their attention, the Mirror 
brings bad luck, or that an uncovered mirror can People can follow you through any of them. And 
steal the soul of the recently dead. once you’ve got their attention, you can bet they 
Most of the time, that’s all true. But some mirrors will.
— and no one can really say which, or why — are Attributes: Mirror People have the same Attributes 
different. Sometimes the light you see coming out of as the person they mimic. If their victim’s Strength is 
a mirror isn’t reflected at all, but shining out of the lower than 4, the Mirror Person has a Strength of 4.
Place on the Other Side. It’s a world as full of life 
and energy as our own, but it only exists when it’s Skills: Mirror People have the same Skills as the 
being observed. When no one’s looking, it’s just a person they mimic. 
void of unreality. Our doubles cluster at the mir- Merits: Mirror People have the same Merits as the 
rors, hungry for those few moments a day when we person they mimic.
brush our teeth or check our makeup. Mostly they’re 
content to mimic us, or maybe that’s all they can do, Potency: 3
but every once in a while the membrane of silvered Willpower: 6*
glass thins. Stare at your reflection too long in a dim 
room, or catch it out of the corner of your eye, and Virtue: Patient
they can come through. And oh, they want to come Vice: Spiteful
through. They want to exist when nobody’s looking, 
to be really, wholly real, and they don’t care who Aspiration: To exist.
they have to drag screaming into the Place on the Initiative: 7*
Other Side to get there.

Defense: 4*
Description: They look just like you. Just like you, 
only ever so subtly flipped on the long axis. If you’re Speed: 15*
left-handed, they’re right handed. That mole on 
your right cheek is on their left. If you cut them open, Health: 4*
you’ll find that they suffer from situs inversus totalis: Bans: Mirror People can only cross into our world 
mirrored internal organs. But then, so do about one when their double sees her reflection do something 
in ten thousand people born right here on earth, unexpected in dim light.
so you have to look for more than that to tell them 
for what they are. Like when their smiles warp into Banes: Shards of the mirror they came through
funhouse horror masks, limbs stretching like images Dread Powers: Chameleon Horror, Snare, 
in rippled glass, reaching out to seize and drag and Surprise Entrance
stuff you back through grandma’s old gilt-framed 
Victorian. Because just one of them escaping is Weapons/Attacks:
never enough. They want to bring all their brothers 
and sisters through with them. Type Damage Range Dice Pool
Storytelling Hints: You’d think they’d be easy to Grapple 0B Melee 8*
avoid. Just stay away from reflective surfaces, right?  
Easier said than done, especially in the modern * These values replace those of the person the 
post-industrial world. Look around you right now. Mirror Person imitates

267 
Your Own Angels



Appendix One: 
Equipment

WEAPONS
Ranged Weapons Chart

Type Dmg Ranges Clip Initiative Str Size Availability Example
Revolver, lt 1 20/40/80 6 0 2 1 •• SW M640  

(.38 Special)
Revolver, hvy 2 35/70/140 6 −2 3 1 •• SW M29  

(.44 Magnum)
Pistol, lt 1 20/40/80 17+1 0 2 1 ••• Glock 17 (9mm)
Pistol, hvy 2 30/60/120 7+1 −2 3 1 ••• Colt M1911A1  

(.45 ACP)
SMG, small* 1 25/50/100 30+1 −2 2 1 ••• Ingram Mac-10 

(9mm)
SMG, large* 2 50/100/200 30+1 −3 3 2 ••• HK MP-5 (9mm)
Rifle 4 200/400/800 5+1 −5 2 3 •• Remington M-700 

(30.06)
Assault Rifle* 3 150/300/600 42+1 −3 3 3 ••• Steyr-AUG 

(5.56mm)
Shotgun** 3 20/40/80 5+1 −4 3 2 •• Remington M870 

(12-gauge)
Crossbow*** 2 40/80/160 1 −5 3 3 •••

Damage: Indicates the number of bonus successes added to a successful attack. Firearms deal lethal damage against ordi-
nary people. The type of damage may vary against supernatural opponents.
Ranges: The listed numbers a short/medium/long ranges in yards. Attacks at medium range suffer a −1 penalty. Attacks at 
long range suffer a −2 penalty.
Clip: The number of rounds a gun can hold.  A “+1” indicates that a bullet can be held in the chamber, ready to fire.
Initiative: The penalty taken to Initiative when wielding the gun.
Strength: The minimum Strength needed to use a weapon effectively. A wielder with a lower Strength suffers a −1 penalty 
on attack rolls.
Size: 1 = Can be fired one-handed; 2 = Must be fired two-handed and can be hidden in a coat; 3 = Can be fired two-
handed but not hidden on one’s person
Availability: The cost in Resources dots or level of Social Merit needed to acquire the weapon.
* The weapon is capable of autofire, including short bursts, medium bursts, and long bursts.
** Attack rolls gain the 9-again quality
*** Crossbows take three turns to reload between shots. A crossbow can be used to deliver a stake through the heart (–3 
penalty to attack rolls; must deal at least 5 damage in one attack)

268 
appendix one-equipment



Melee Weapons Chart
Type Damage Initiative Strength Size Availability Special
Sap 0 −1 1 1 • Stun
Brass Knuckles 0 0 1 1 • Uses Brawl to attack
Baton 1 −1 2 2 n/a
Crowbar 2 −2 2 2 •
Tire Iron 1 −3 2 2 •• +1 Defense
Chain 1 −3 2 2 • Grapple
Shield (small) 0 −2 2 2 •• Concealed
Shield (large) 2 −4 3 3 •• Concealed
Knife 0 −1 1 1 •
Rapier 1 −2 1 2 •• Armor piercing 1
Machete 2 −2 2 2 ••
Hatchet 1 −2 1 1 •
Fire Axe 3 −4 3 3 •• 9-again, two-handed
Chainsaw 5 −6 4 3 ••• 9-again, two-handed
Stake* 0 −4 1 1 n/a
Spear** 2 −2 2 4 • +1 Defense, two-handed
Stun gun (melee) 1 -1 1 1 • Stun; bonus successes 

don't add to modifier for 
damage

Type: A weapon’s type is a general classification that can apply to anything your character picks up. A metal club might be 
an antique mace, a metal baseball bat, or a hammer, while a hatchet might be a meat cleaver or an antique handaxe.
Damage: Indicates the number of bonus successes added to a successful attack. Weapons always deal lethal damage.
Initiative: The penalty taken to Initiative when wielding the weapon. If using more than one weapon, take the higher pen-
alty and increase by 1.
Strength: The minimum Strength needed to use a weapon effectively. A wielder with a lower Strength suffers a −1 penalty 
on attack rolls.
Size: 1 = Can be hidden in a hand; 2 = Can be hidden in a coat; 3+ = Cannot be hidden.
Availability: The cost in Resources dots or level of Social Merit needed to acquire the weapon.
Concealed: A character who wields a shield but doesn’t use it to attack can add its Size to his Defense, and uses its Size as 
a concealment modifier against ranged attacks.
Grapple: Add the chain’s weapon bonus to your dice pool when grappling.
Stun: Halve the victim’s Size when aiming for the head with intent to stun.
Two-handed: This weapon requires two hands. It can be used one-handed, but doing so increases the Strength requirement 
by 1.
* A stake must target the heart (–3 penalty to attack rolls) and must deal at least 5 damage in one attack.
** The reach of a spear gives a +1 Defense bonus against opponents who are unarmed or wield weapons of Size 1

269 
Weapons



ARMOR
Armor Chart

Type Rating Strength Defense Speed Availability Coverage

MODERN
Reinforced clothing* 1/0 1 0 0 • Torso, arms, legs
Kevlar vest* 1/3 1 0 0 • Torso
Flak Jacket 2/4 1 −1 0 •• Torso, arms
Full Riot Gear 3/5 2 −2 −1 ••• Torso, arms, legs

ARCHAIC
Leather (hard) 2/0 2 −1 0 • Torso, arms
Chainmail 3/1 3 −2 −2 •• Torso, arms
Plate 4/2 3 −2 −3 •••• Torso, arms, legs

Rating: Armor provides protection against normal attacks and Firearms attacks. The number before the slash is for general 
armor, while the number after the slash is for ballistic armor.

Strength: If your character’s Strength is lower than that required for her armor, reduce her Brawl and Weaponry dice 
pools by 1.

Defense: The penalty imposed on your character’s Defense when wearing the armor.

Speed: The penalty to your character’s Speed for the armor worn.

Availability: The cost in Resources dots or level of Social Merit needed to acquire the armor.

Coverage: The areas of a character protected by the armor. Unless an attacker targets a specific unarmored location 
(“Specified Targets”, above), the armor’s protection applies. Wearing a helmet increases the armor’s coverage to include a 
character’s head.
* This armor is concealed, either as normal clothing (e.g. biker leathers) or being worn under a jacket or baggy shirt. 
Attackers have no idea the target is wearing armor until after they land a successful hit.

EQUIPMENT
Mental Equipment Effect: Automotive tools are a necessity for all but the sim-

plest automobile repairs. Even then, a fully-stocked garage with 
heavy equipment is required for more involved tasks such as 

Mental equipment is all but essential for many character 
engine or transmission replacement. If time is not a factor, any 

types. Mental Skills without the proper tools are almost 
trained character with a Crafts Automotive Specialty can repair a 

useless in most cases. A doctor without medicine is hardly 
vehicle’s mundane issues without rolls. Complex modifications 

capable of healing, and an auto mechanic without a toolbox 
and enhancements, or massive damages, always require a greater 

couldn’t change even some minor belts on a car. 
effort (an extended Intelligence + Crafts roll) to work out.

Automotive Tools Cache
Basic (Kit): Die Bonus +1, Durability 2, Size 2, Structure 

Die Bonus +1 to +3, Durability 2, Size 1-5, Structure 5, 
3, Availability •

Availability • to •••
Advanced (Garage): Dice Bonus +2, Availability •

270 
appendix one-equipment



Effect: A cache is a hidden and defensible place 
for items, usually weapons. It keeps important items 
from prying eyes. A cache can never be more 
than half the Size of its parent object. 
For example, a Size 6 car can 
support no larger than a 
Size 3 cache. A given 
cache can hold two 
items of its Size and 
any reasonable num-
ber of smaller-sized 
items. Its Availability 
determines its dice bo-
nus, which both adds 
to concealment rolls 
and subtracts from 
rolls to find the items 
within. 

Communications 
Headset

Dice Bonus +2, Durability 0, Size 1, Structure 
1, Availability ••

Effect: Communications headsets keep characters audience. A common example is a book code, where a page, 
in constant contact. Different varieties work over different paragraph, and word from a certain book are used as the 
distances, but most commercial models work over about 200 foundation for a cypher. This keeps any uninformed eyes off 
feet. A common alternative is a conference call between cellu- the intended message. In the case of a book code, a book is 
lar phones and Bluetooth headsets. If the users have practiced often chosen that all message recipients can access easily. This 
using their headsets together, they gain the dice bonus on guarantees that the code never has to travel with the code key. 
any coordinated efforts. In the case of a teamwork action, A successfully-designed cypher is difficult to break. The 
the dice bonus only applies to the final roll. If the users are dice bonus acts as a penalty to any rolls to crack the code 
unpracticed, the bonus falls to +1 and actors must make without the necessary reference key. 
reflexive Wits + Composure rolls to participate successfully. 

Any heavy objects can obstruct a headset’s signal. Anything Cracking Software
obstructing with Durability higher than 3 requires listeners to 
make a Wits + Composure roll to understand shared messages. Dice Bonus +2, Durability N/A, Size N/A, Structure 
Levy a -1 penalty for each point of Durability over 4. N/A, Availability •••

Effect: Crappy software’s a dime a dozen. Good, reliable 
Crime Scene Kit cracking software is hard to come by. With solid software, a 

hacker can force passwords, breach firewalls, and otherwise 
Dice Bonus +2, Durability 2, Size 3, Structure 2, be a nuisance in computer systems. Beyond the dice pool 

Availability •• modification, the benefit such software offers is a sort of 
Effect: A crime scene (or CSI) kit is a toolbox full of buffer between the hacker and security. Any effort to track 

investigative aids such as magnifiers, fingerprinting dust, the hacker takes two steps: one to identify the software, then 
cameras, tape, testing chemicals, and sample bags. While one to trace it back to the source. Functionally, this means 
the kits offer a dice bonus to Investigation rolls, the more rolling twice on behalf of the security personnel, with an 
important benefit of the CSI kit is that it allows evidence opportunity for the hacker to withdraw before detection. 
to be moved and digested elsewhere. Properly applied, it 
allows investigators to do the bulk of their work offsite and Digital Recorder
at their own pace. 

Dice Bonus +1 or +2, Durability 1, Size 1, Structure 2, 
Code Kit Availability • or ••

Effect: In the last decade, digital audio recorders have 
Dice Bonus +5, Durability 1, Size 2, Structure 1, gotten smaller, more effective, and more affordable. Now, 

Availability • any student can carry a coin-sized device that would have 
Effect: A code kit is a series of tools created for the put intelligence agencies of the 1980s to shame. The cheaper 

purpose of making and interpreting a code for a specific model of recorder gives its +1 bonus to any rolls to catch 

271 
Mental Equipment



words or sounds. The bonus also applies to concealment rolls. not go missing without being noticed so long as they have a 
The more expensive model gives +2. With an Intelligence + glowing neon bar on their belt. 
Computer roll(with die bonus), a character can contest any 
rolls to obscure discussion or mask noises. GPS Tracker
Duct Tape Dice Bonus +3, Durability 2, Size 2, Structure 2, 

Availability ••
Die Bonus +1, Durability 1, Size 1, Structure 2, Effect: With the advent of the modern cellular phone, 

Availability • most modern people have a GPS-enabled device on their per-
Effect: Duct tape has as many uses as one can think of, son at any given time. With a bit of know-how and access to 

and just as many you never would. It can reinforce barricades, someone’s phone, your character can track their every move 
stabilize weapon handles, bind prisoners, repair broken pipes, (provided those moves are not in caves, tunnels, or sewer 
and so much more. In most cases, duct tape can offer a +1 systems). Some characters will trade GPS data in case one 
bonus to Crafts-related rolls. Alternatively, it can add a point member of the group becomes lost or if they have to follow 
of Durability to almost anything. If used as a restraint, rolls someone without notice. Planting a phone on an unwitting 
to break free suffer a -3 penalty, and must overcome the duct subject can serve as a highly-effective tracking device. 
tape’s Structure. 

Keylogging Software
First-Aid Kit Dice Bonus +2, Durability N/A, Size N/A, Structure 

Die Bonus 0 or +1, Durability 1, Size 2, Structure 3, N/A, Availability ••
Availability • or •• Effect: Keylogging software does exactly one thing: it 

Effect: A first-aid kit contains all the necessary supplies to logs keystrokes on a computer. This is usually done to re-
stabilize an injury and stop wounds from getting worse until cord incriminating data or passwords. Usually, keylogging 
the victim can find proper treatment. The one-dot version of software is coupled with software to transmit the data once 
the first-aid kit does not offer a die bonus; it simply allows captured. The challenge for the would-be intruder is installing 
for treatment. The two-dot version offers a +1 to treatment the software. Email scams are an unreliable way to get onto 
rolls due to superior supplies. a specific computer, but could fool one member of a large 

organization. A thumb drive is very effective, but requires 
Flashlight direct, physical access to the recipient computer. The soft-

ware’s dice bonus offers an advantage to breach a network 
Die Bonus +1, Durability 2, Size 1, Structure 3, 

or to find important data. 
Availability •

Effect: In a dark world, a flashlight can be a person’s 
best friend. It generally does what it’s supposed to; it helps Luminol
cut a path through the unknown. Its die bonus subtracts Dice Bonus +2, Durability 0, Size 1, Structure 1, 
from any penalties due to darkness, and adds to any rolls to Availability •
search in the dark. A good flashlight can serve as a club in a Effect: Luminol is a chemical that reacts to certain metals 
pinch. Also, it can blind an unfortunate subject. A Dexterity in human blood and other bodily fluids. The reaction causes 
+ Athletics roll, subtracting an informed opponent’s Defense, a faint neon glow for about thirty seconds, visible in the dark. 
will put the beam where it needs to be. The victim’s player It comes in an aerosol can and will seek out faint traces of 
may make a contested Stamina roll. If your character scores bodily fluids, even after a thorough cleaning. In addition to 
more successes than the subject, they’re blinded for one turn. showing the exact locations of violent crimes, luminol can 
Victims with especially acute senses are blinded for two turns.  assist in tracking wounded people and animals. Luminol’s 

dice bonus applies to any roll to track by the fluid traces, or 
Glowstick to piece together the details of a crime scene. 

Dice Bonus +2, Durability 1, Size 1, Structure 1, 
Availability • Multi-Tool

Effect: Glowsticks use a chemical mixture to summon Die Bonus +1, Durability 3, Size 1, Structure 4, 
forth enough light to see in a small area. Most commercial Availability •
glowsticks last a couple of hours; police and other professional Effect: Sometimes the need for mobility doesn’t allow for 
varieties can last 12. Because they’re small, airtight containers, your character to carry around a full tool kit. In these cases, a 
they serve the added benefit of being useful underwater or multi-tool can be a lifesaver. From sawing to stripping wires, 
in the rain. Functionally, they work the same as a flashlight. to opening bottles, to filing off serial numbers, a multi-tool 
However, they cannot be used to blind a target, since their soft can do the job in a pinch. The multi-tool offers a negligible 
glow is far less obtrusive than a flashlight’s beam. They’re also die bonus on numerous Crafts and other assorted tasks, 
very conveniently worn, which can serve strategic purposes and most importantly, allows for rolls when sometimes they 
for a group operating in low-light conditions. A member will couldn’t be made for lack of proper equipment. While not 

272 
appendix one-equipment



made for use as a weapon, it can serve as one, causing zero versions may include infrared heat sensors, barometric scan-
lethal damage, but suffering a -1 penalty to hit. ners, or even more complex gear. Either way, the point of 

surveillance equipment is to survey, detect, and otherwise 
Personal Computer track who enters or leaves a location. Often, this also means 

locking down breached zones. Unless someone knows 
Dice Bonus +1 to +4, Durability 2, Size 3, Structure 2, 

surveillance equipment exists and actively avoids it, his pres-
Availability • to ••••

Effect: ence is noticed and recorded. If he tries to avoid it, contest 
 In the developed world, almost every household 

his Dexterity + Stealth against the installing technician’s 
has access to a personal computer. They can vary in size, 

Intelligence + Computer or Intelligence + Crafts (for digital 
functionality, and price, from decade-old models that barely 

and analog systems, respectively). The technician may add 
surf the web to high-end machines that process gigabytes of 

the equipment’s dice bonus. If the intruder scores more suc-
data per second. In today’s world, many lives revolve around 

cesses, he remains unnoticed. Otherwise, he goes on record. 
computers. For some people, their entire careers and per-
sonal lives exist within digital space. The Availability of the 
computer determines its dice bonus. Survival Gear

Dice Bonus +1 or +2, Durability 2, Size 2 or 3, Structure 
Smartphone 3, Availability • or •••

Effect: Survival gear is the catch-all term for the various 
Dice Bonus +1 to +2, Durability 2, Size 1, Structure 1, 

kits of equipment needed to survive in harsh environments. 
Availability • to •••

Effect: This could include tents, canned foodstuff, raingear, sleeping 
 By themselves, smartphones can make calls, send 

bags, sterile water, or any of the various things a person can 
text messages and emails, take pictures, maintain an agenda, 

use to survive the world outside their cushy homes. They 
and search the web. With a bit of software, the smartphone 

come in two levels: a basic level and an advanced level. The 
becomes the multi-tool of the electronic age. While it cannot 

basic level offers +1 and subtracts one from the effective 
accomplish the raw computing power of a full-sized personal 

level of environment, (see Extreme Environments, p. 97), 
computer, higher-end smartphones can manage almost all 

while the advanced offers +2 and subtracts two from the ef-
the same tasks with ease. 

fective environment level. This does not help with a Level 4 
Most major gadgets have been successfully replicated with 

environment. A resourceful character can rig or scavenge the 
smartphone applications. GPS scanning and tracking are staples 

necessary supplies for basic survival gear, but an advanced 
of the amateur investigator. Facial recognition software finds a 

set of gear requires very specialized equipment. Basic survival 
face in a crowd with relative accuracy. They can photograph and 

gear can assist with almost any environment, but advanced 
transcribe text, then translate ancient tomes. They can store a 

survival gear must target one particular type of environment. 
library’s worth of text and allow for automated searches. They 
offer directions with photographic assistance. Even the value of 
a mindless video game on a stakeout is often underestimated. Talcum Powder

Dice Bonus +2, Durability N/A, Size 1, Structure N/A, 
Special Effects Availability •

Effect: Talcum powder can keep a baby’s bottom from 
Dice Bonus +2, Durability 2, Size 5, Structure 3, 

Availability ••• getting diaper rash, but it can also show the presence of the 

Effect: unseen, and show evidence of intrusion if placed at a portal 
 “Special effects” is a catch-all term for the tricks 

of entry. If an area is dusted with talcum powder, a character 
and chicanery used by amusement parks and stage magicians 

must achieve five successes on a Dexterity + Stealth roll to 
to fool witnesses. A character may use these as a distraction 

enter without a trace. Fewer successes will only obscure the 
or a defense. For example, the Pepper’s Ghost illusion is 

specifics of their feet and hands. Some paranormal investi-
relatively easy to set up with the right tools. It uses a large 

gators use talcum powder as a way to give ghosts and other 
mirror and a sheet of glass, along with a model and a light 

invisible entities a method for communication. 
source. It projects an illusion of the model’s reflection, and 
makes witnesses see a “ghost.” 

In addition to the dice bonus, special effects generally fool Ultraviolet Ink
their audience at first. A witness will fall for the trick unless Dice Bonus +2, Durability 1, Size 1, Structure 2, 
given good reason to be suspicious. This can waste valuable Availability •
time or lead the witness into a trap. Effect: Ultraviolet ink, or invisible ink, as it’s commonly 

called, is an outstanding way to relay messages in plain sight. 
Surveillance Equipment Since the naked eye cannot perceive the ink without an 

ultraviolet light, a character can scrawl messages for other 
Dice Bonus +2, Durability 2, Size 2, Structure 2, 

Availability ••• recipients who are in the know. It also allows for secret infor-

Effect: mation to be passed around through mundane channels. If 
 Standard surveillance equipment usually consists 

someone’s being surveyed by nefarious forces, an ultraviolet 
of motion detectors, cameras, and monitors. High-end 

273 
Mental Equipment



message scribbled on a throwaway magazine is much easier 
to get into their home unmolested than, say, a suspicious 
letter slid through their doorframe. If you need to mark 
a path to a secret hiding place, what better way to conceal 
the guiding marks? 

Physical Equipment
Physical equipment enhances the use of Physical Skills. 

This often means using simple or complex machines 
to make things easier, as well as using simple tricks to 
heighten the effectiveness of a character’s inherent talents. 

Battering Ram
Dice Bonus +4, Durability 3, Size 4, Structure 8, 

Availability ••
Effect: The purpose of the battering ram is to bring 

down doors and other barricades with direct, focused 
force. A battering ram uses a Teamwork action, allowing up 
to four participants. The primary actor adds the ram’s dice 
bonus to her roll. A ram ignores two points of Durability.

Bear Trap
Dice Bonus +2, Durability 3, Size 2, Structure 5, 

Availability ••
Effect: A bear trap is a large metal contraption that 

looks something like a set of deadly jaws. For this reason, 
they’re also commonly called jaw traps. When a human 
or large animal steps into the bear trap, it snaps shut on 
their leg. Due to the serrated edges on the trap, this can 
cause massive bleeding or even broken bones. 

The jaw trap causes three lethal damage and ignores 
two points of armor or Durability. A character trapped 
in the jaws can attempt to escape as an instant action. 
Doing so requires a Strength + Stamina roll, with the 
trap’s dice bonus as a penalty due to the distracting pain 
and the strength of the jaws. Failure on this roll causes 
another point of lethal damage as the jaw digs in further. 
Creatures without opposable thumbs cannot escape this 
way and must rip themselves free. 

Any rolls to hide a bear trap suffer its dice bonus as 
a penalty. They’re difficult to hide due to their awkward 
shape and weight. 

Caltrops
Dice Bonus +2, Durability 2, Size 2, Structure 3, 

Availability ••
Effect: Caltrops are small, pointed pieces of metal, 

arranged in such a way that one point is always facing 
upward. This makes walking (or driving) through a patch 
of caltrops inconvenient and painful. These traits assume 
possession of enough caltrops to fill a doorway or other 
narrow corridor. 

Moving through caltrops causes one point of lethal 
damage. Caltrops ignore a point of armor or Durability. 

274 
appendix one-equipment



To move through safely, a Dexterity + Athletics roll is required Position Concealer: The sound changes dramatically, to 
with the caltrops’ dice bonus applied as a penalty to the roll. the point where many people do not recognize the sound 
A character may only move at half Speed (rounded down) as that of a gunshot and are often unable to place where 
while moving safely through caltrops. the lower tone came from. The muzzle flash is also reduced 

A character may hide caltrops, although it is difficult. A dramatically with a suppressor, helping to conceal a shooter’s 
Wits + Larceny - 3 roll is required; the caltrops’ dice bonus position. A character trying to identify a suppressed shot 
does not apply to this roll. must roll Wits + Firearms - 2. Any character searching for the 

shooter using the gun’s tells suffers a -2 penalty. 
Camouflage Clothing

Dice Bonus +2, Durability 1, Size 2, Structure 3, Gas Mask
Availability •• Dice Bonus +5, Durability 1, Size 2, Structure 3, 

Effect: Camouflage clothing allows its wearer to blend in Availability ••
with her surroundings enough for the untrained eye to pass Effect: A gas mask is a filtration device placed over the 
over her completely. Effective camouflage must be catered face that defends the wearer against noxious chemicals in the 
to the environment: greens and browns in the woodlands, air. With a working gas mask, a character can stand minor 
shades of grey in an urban area. Proper camouflage adds its toxins for as long as he needs, whereas other characters might 
bonus to rolls to remain unnoticed. take damage over time or require rolls to remain conscious. 

Powerful toxins may still require rolls. A gas mask adds five 
Climbing Gear dice to these rolls. 

Dice Bonus +2, Durability 3, Size 2, Structure 2, 
Availability •• Handcuffs

Effect: Climbing gear includes ropes, pulleys, handles, Dice Bonus +2, Durability 4, Size 1, Structure 4, 
carabiners, hooks, and other assorted tools for scaling things. Availability •
They serve a twofold purpose. First, they add their dice bonus Effect: A solid pair of steel handcuffs is made to restrain 
to the normal Strength + Athletics rolls for climbing. Second, even a remarkably strong person. Applying handcuffs to an 
if properly applied (with a Wits + Athletics roll), they prevent unwilling combatant is an additional option in a grapple. Roll 
a character from falling more than 10 feet at a time.   Strength + Brawl - the opponent’s Strength. Success means 

the handcuffs are where they need to be. 
Crowbar Breaking out of successfully-applied handcuffs requires a 

Strength + Stamina - 4 roll. Each success on the roll reduces 
Dice Bonus +2, Durability 3, Size 2, Structure 4, 

the Structure of the cuffs by 1. Cuffs reduced to 0 Structure 
Availability •

Effect: snap open. Each attempt to escape causes one point of bash-
 A crowbar is a curved piece of steel used to pry 

ing damage. 
open shipping pallets, jammed doors, and other things a 

A character may also try to finagle their hands out of the 
normal person would be incapable of doing by hand. It adds 

cuffs. This requires a Dexterity + Athletics - 4 roll. Success 
to any dice rolls used to establish leverage. When prying 

allows for an escape, and causes one point of bashing dam-
things open, it allows your character to ignore two points of 

age. Failure on this roll causes one point of lethal damage, 
Durability on the lock or barricade. A crowbar can also be 

as the thumb jerks out of socket.  
used as a weapon (see p. 268).

Attempting to do anything requiring manual dexterity 

Firearm Suppressor while cuffed incurs a -4 penalty, or -2 if the hands are cuffed 
in front. Witnesses are unlikely to behave favorably around 

Dice Bonus +2, Durability 2, Size 1, Structure 2, a cuffed character; Social rolls against strangers incur a -3 
Availability •• penalty. 

Effect: A firearm suppressor is popularly and misleadingly Many police forces and security companies now prefer 
referred to as a silencer in cinema and other media. It’s a heavy-duty plastic zip ties in place of handcuffs. While they’re 
cylinder placed on the end of a gun barrel that changes and slightly less durable (Durability 3), they incur a -5 penalty from 
lightens the sound of a shot. A suppressor delivers many behind or -3 from the front, because they can be far tighter 
minor benefits, but offers two noteworthy advantages: short- on the wrists. They can also be cut free. 
range accuracy and concealment.

Increased Accuracy: A suppressed firearm travels through Lockpicking Kit
a longer barrel and the muzzle crown evens the expulsion of 

Dice Bonus +2, Durability 2, Size 2, Structure 2, 
hot gasses that can slightly affect trajectory. In game terms, 

Availability ••
reduce a suppressed gun’s damage rating by one due to the 

Effect: A lockpicking kit consists of picks, tools, and rods 
bullet’s subsonic flight, but increase the attack dice pool by 

for manipulating tumblers and opening locks. A good kit con-
two when firing at short range.

tains a wide array of tools for all types of locks, but guarantee 

275 
Physical Equipment



intrusion of an analog lock. With such a kit and at least a 
dot of Larceny, a character can pick a lock without a roll 
if time is not an issue. If time is an issue, the dice bonus 
applies to the Dexterity + Larceny rolls. At Availability •, 
a character may procure a portable lockpick. It has Size 1, 
Structure 1, and is far more concealable. However, it only 
offers a +1 bonus and doesn’t allow for picking without 
rolls since the kit realistically may not have the right tools 
for a given job. 

A lockpicking kit only works on mechanical locks. 
Digital locks require more specific hacking and code 
prediction. A character may procure a digital lockpick at 
Availability •••, but it typically only works on one type 
of lock, such as the keycard locks used in hotels. Digital 
lockpicks can be Size 2, or Size 1 if crafted as an extension 
of a laptop computer or smartphone.  

Night Vision Goggles
Die Bonus +2, Durability 1, Size 2, Structure 1, 

Availability ••
Effect: Night vision goggles amplify low-light condi-

tions, allowing characters to see when they otherwise 
could not. A character with night vision goggles does not 
suffer penalties for acting blind. Bright lights can render 
the wearer temporarily blinded, as if he had a flashlight 

shone in his eyes. 

Pepper Spray
Die Bonus +1, Durability 2, Size 1, Structure 1, 

Availability •
Effect: Pepper spray is a blend of chemicals (mostly 

capsaicin, the “hot” part of a chili pepper) contained in 
a small spray can, designed to debilitate threats. Civilians 
use these devices in self-defense; police use them to 
subdue unruly criminals. Use of pepper spray requires a 
Dexterity + Athletics or Dexterity + Firearms roll. Each 
yard is a range category, so one yard is short range, two 
yards is medium, three yards is long range. An opponent’s 
Defense applies, but in normal wind conditions, the die 
bonus applies to the roll. 

Upon the first attack, the victim suffers the Stun Tilt 
(see p. 286). An opponent struck suffers a -5 penalty to all 
actions. This penalty can be reduced by one for every turn 
spent rinsing the eyes with water. Commercial chemicals 
designed to clean the eyes will fully remove the penalty 
after a turn. 

Rope
Die Bonus +1, Durability 2, Size 3, Structure 2, 

Availability •
Effect: Rope is one of the oldest tools known to 

humankind. It’s never left prominent use because of its 
simple and efficient utility. A good rope adds its die bonus 
to relevant Crafts rolls and anywhere else it would assist. 
As a binding agent, it resists breaking with a Durability (or 

276 
appendix one-equipment



effective Strength) equal to its user’s Crafts score, due to the equal Availability. For more complex uses, consider it a single 
multiplicative effect of solid knots. An applicable Specialty month’s allotment of the same Resources. 
adds one to the user’s Crafts score for this purpose. Some 
interrogators, shibari fetishists, and boy scouts alike special- Disguise
ize in remarkable knot tying, potentially rendering subjects 

Dice Bonus +1 to +3, Durability 1, Size 3, Structure 2, 
completely and hopelessly immobile. 

Availability • to •••
Stun Gun Effect: A good disguise goes a long way to help fit in with 

a strange group, or to go unnoticed in a crowd where one 
No Die Bonus, Durability 2, Size 1, Structure 2, doesn’t belong. Properly costumed for a situation, no rolls 

Availability •, ••, or ••• are required to blend into the crowd. Any rolls to actively 
Effect: A stun gun is designed to deliver an overwhelming detect the outsider suffer a penalty equal to the dice bonus 

amount of electricity to an assailant in order to shut down of the disguise; the disguised character also gains the bonus 
her muscles and send her to the ground. As a defensive item, to remain hidden. 
this gives the would-be victim time to run or get help. As an With a disguise, a character can emulate the first dot of a 
offensive item, it leaves the victim ready for restraint or worse. single Social Merit that would make sense within the scope 

These devices come in two varieties (handheld and of the scene. For example, it doesn’t make money appear 
ranged). The handheld model has live leads on the edge of from thin air, but it would allow a character to get their 
a handle and can be used as many as 50 times on one bat- drinks on a nonexistent tab, reflecting Resources •. This 
tery charge. The ranged model fires small, wired darts up to requires a Composure + Subterfuge roll to maintain in the 
15 feet away. While the ranged model has a similar battery face of anyone in the know, contested by the witness’s Wits 
life, it uses a compressed air cartridge that must be replaced + Subterfuge. The dice bonus of the disguise applies to the 
after each shot. liar, but does not affect the witness. 

Use of a handheld stun gun requires a Dexterity + 
Weaponry roll, penalized by the victim’s Defense. The Fashion
ranged model uses Dexterity + Firearms, also penalized by the 

Dice Bonus +1 to +3, Durability 1, Size 2, Structure 1, 
victim’s Defense. On a successful hit with either, the victim 

Availability • to •••••
takes one point of lethal damage. The successes subtract Effect: Never underestimate the value of high fashion. 
from the victim’s next dice pool. With the ranged version, 

Like a disguise, fashionable clothing allows a character to fit 
the darts remain in the victim’s body, adding three successes 

in. However, the point of fashion is to draw attention, not 
automatically each turn. They can be removed with a Strength 

to fade into the crowd. As opposed to anonymity, fashion 
+ Stamina roll, with the initial successes penalizing the ac-

means being noticed. Note that the clothing chosen must 
tion. With the handheld version, the attacker can attempt 

be appropriate to the setting. Punk chic will not work at a 
to maintain the shock, which takes a Strength + Weaponry 

Senator’s fundraiser, for example. When improperly dressed, 
roll, penalized by the greater of the opponent’s Strength or 

the dice bonus applies as a penalty to all Social Skill rolls. 
Defense. Once the accumulated successes exceed the victim’s 

The dice bonus for Fashion is equal to half the Availability, 
Size, the victim collapses into neuromuscular incapacitation. 

rounded up. 
Once the shock ends, this lasts for (10 - victim’s Stamina) 
turns. 

Services
Social Equipment In addition to the equipment in this appendix, characters 

may look for services from other characters. Below is a list of 
Social actions deal with people. Social equipment offers 

some things characters may pursue. Each has an Availability 
tools for leverage, influence, and manipulation. 

rating that works identically to other equipment. This can 

Cash act as a foundation for what certain levels of Allies, Status, 
and other Social Merits might accomplish. Most are sorted by 

Dice Bonus +1 to +5, Durability 1, Size 2, Structure 1, Skills to reflect their general uses. Many include a die bonus 
Availability • to ••••• as well. Assume most services take a week to procure at the 

Effect: This represents a wad of cash, a briefcase of money, listed Availability levels. Raise Availability by one to make 
an offshore bank account number, or some other lump sum. It procurement take a day instead. 
can’t be reflected in the Resources Merit since it’s not a regular Note that some services listed could be highly illegal and 
income. However, it can be expended to offer a bonus equiva- should be limited in access to appropriate Merits. In many cases, 
lent to its Availability on any social roll where a bribe could be illegal services only offer negligible dice bonuses. Their real ad-
beneficial. Also, it can be expended to purchase one item of vantage comes from a layer of separation from legal authorities. 

277 
Services



Services

Die Die 
Service Availability Bonus Service Availability Bonus

Academics
Historical specialist  ••• +3 Throwing an athletic  •••• +4
consulting competition
Research assistance from •• +2 Brawl
grad students

Arrange underground  ••• +2
Translation of a dead  ••• +2 boxing ring
language

Bodyguard service ••• +3
Computer

Self-defense classes • +1
Custom phone application ••• +2

Drive
Digital image enhancement •• +3

Chauffer •• +2
Graphic design/forgery •• +2

Stunt performance/ ••• +3
Crafts mock crash

Antiquities restoration ••• +2 Tour bus rental •••• +2
Auto repair •• +3 Firearms
Custom equipment  ••• +2 Antique gun repair ••• +2
modifications

Cover fire from gangs ••• +3
Investigation

Procuring smuggled  •••• +2
Consultation on evidence ••• +3 military arms
Investigative photography ••• +2 Larceny
Private investigation/ •• +2 Breaking and entering ••• +2
background check

Security consulting ••• +2
Medicine

Stealing a protected relic •••• +3
Black market surgeon •••• +3

Stealth
Expert medical witness •••• +2

Strategic distraction ••• +3
Rush plastic surgery •••• +2

Tailing a suspect ••• +2
Occult

Targeted vandalism •• +2
Esoteric consultant/sage •••• +3

Survival
Exorcist ••• +2

Field dress and preserve an ••• +1
Protective amulets or wards •••• +1 animal

Politics Trail guide •• +3
Campaign assistant ••• +3 Weatherproof a shelter •• +2
Cutting red tape  ••• +2 Weaponry
(read: bribe)

Properly forged sword ••• +2
Spin doctor ••• +2

Identify wound from ••• +2
Science obscure weapon

Fact-checking •• +3 Training in archaic warfare ••• +2
Falsifying research/coverup ••• +2 Animal Ken
Lab access •• +2 Buy a trained animal ••• +2

Athletics Identify animal droppings •• +1
Meditative assistance ••• +2 Rule out natural causes of ••• +2
Personal trainer ••• +3 death

278 
appendix one-equipment



Die Die 
Service Availability Bonus Service Availability Bonus

Empathy Pickup artist ••• +2
“Good cop” interrogator ••• +2 Socialize
Neutral arbitrator ••• +2 Catering ••• or •••• +1 or +2
Therapy session •• +1 Elocution consulting ••• +1

Expression Escort ••• +2
Document forgery ••• +3 Streetwise
Ghostwriting •• +2 Arrange a rave or block ••• +2
Motivational speech ••• +1 party

Intimidation Black market access •• +2

Anti-interrogation training •••• +3 Find crash space •• +1

“Bad cop” interrogator ••• +2 Smuggling contraband ••• +1

Deprogramming therapy ••• +2 Subterfuge

Persuasion Amateur Actor/Actress •• +2

Defense attorney ••• +3 Con artistry ••• +2
Gambling ringer •••

Hostage negotiator •••• +3 +2

279 
Services



Appendix Two: 
Tilts

Tilts come in two forms: Personal and Environmental. Causing the Tilt: Some supernatural powers can cripple 
Personal Tilts only apply to one character, and include ways in a victim’s limbs or break bones with a touch. A character can 
which that character can overcome the effect. Environmental have his arm knocked out by a targeted blow to the arm (-2 pen-
Tilts affect the whole scene, and offer ways for individual alty) that deals more damage than the character’s Stamina. A 
characters to mitigate their effects. targeted blow to the hand inflicts this Tilt if it does any damage.

Ending the Tilt: If the Tilt is inflicted as a result of an attack, 
ARM WRACK mark an X under the leftmost Health box affected by that attack. 

The Tilt ends when the damage that caused it has healed. If the 
damage that inflicts this Tilt is aggravated, the character loses 

Personal the use of his arm (or completely loses his arm) permanently.
Description: Your arm burns with pain and then goes 

numb. It could be dislocated, sprained, or broken, but BEATEN DOWN
whatever’s wrong with it means you can’t move your limb.

Effect: If your arm’s broken or otherwise busted, you drop 
whatever you’re holding in that arm and can’t use it to attack Personal
opponents — unless you’ve got the Ambidextrous Merit, you Description: The character has had the fight knocked 
suffer off-hand penalties for any rolls that require manual out of him.
dexterity. If this effect spreads to both limbs, you’re down to Effect: The character cannot take active part in the 
a chance die on any rolls that require manual dexterity, and fight without extra effort. The player must spend a point of 
-3 to all other Physical actions. Willpower each time he wants the character to take a violent 

280 
Appendix Two-Tilts



action in the fight. He can still run, Dodge, and apply Causing the Tilt: For the most part, the weather is out 
Defense. If he wishes to take another action, the Storyteller of the characters’ control; the Storyteller should telegraph 
should judge whether the action is aggressive enough to an incoming blizzard before it hits, but it’s ultimately up to 
require the expenditure. her. Some supernatural powers might grant a character the 

Causing the Tilt: The character suffers bashing damage power to create a blizzard.
in excess of his Stamina or any amount of lethal damage. Ending the Tilt: Without supernatural powers, characters can’t 

Ending the Tilt: The character surrenders and gives the end a blizzard. The best they can manage is to escape the weather 
aggressor what he wants. At this point, the character regains a or wait for it to stop. Proper equipment (such as goggles and snow 
point of Willpower and takes a Beat, but can take no further boots) can add +1 to +3 to a roll, offsetting some of the penalties. 
action in the fight. If the aggressor’s intent is to kill or injure If someone is causing this Tilt through a supernatural power, it’s 
the character, obviously surrendering isn’t a good option. possible that the characters could disrupt his concentration.

BLINDED DEAFENED

Personal Personal
Description: The character’s eyes are damaged or Description: The character can’t hear. Maybe he’s suffer-

removed. ing intense tinnitus, can only hear the roaring of blood in 
Effect: The character suffers a -3 penalty to any rolls his ears, or has been deafened by a gunshot.

that rely on vision — including attack rolls — and halves his Effect: If the character is deaf in one ear, he suffers a -3 
Defense if one eye is blinded. That penalty increases to -5 penalty to hearing-based Perception rolls. A character who 
and loss of all Defense if both eyes are affected. is struck deaf in both ears only gets a chance die on hearing-

Causing the Tilt: The normal way to inflict the Tilt is based Perception rolls, and suffers a -2 penalty to all combat-
to deal damage to the target’s eyes, a specified attack with a related dice rolls — suddenly losing the ability to hear the 
-5 penalty (see Specified Targets, p. 92). A successful attack people around you is tremendously disorienting.
normally damages one eye. It takes an exceptional success to Causing the Tilt: A particularly loud noise within 10 
totally blind an attacker. An attacker can inflict temporary feet of the character may cause temporary hearing loss, as 
blindness by slashing at her opponent’s brow, throwing sand though the character were deaf in both ears. Alternatively, 
into his eyes, or kicking up dirt. This requires an attack roll a targeted attack on the ear — at a -4 penalty — can deafen a 
of Dexterity + Athletics with a -3 penalty, and the victim’s character. Supernatural creatures with heightened senses can 
Defense applies to this attack. If it succeeds, the target is be deafened by loud noises at greater distances.
Blinded for the next turn. Ending the Tilt: Deafness caused by loud noises fades 

Ending the Tilt: If an attack against the character’s eye after (10 - the victim’s Stamina + Resolve) turns. If an attack 
does any points of damage, mark an X under the leftmost against the character’s ear does any points of damage, mark 
Health box affected by that attack. If the damage inflicted is an X under the leftmost Health box affected by that attack. If 
aggravated the character loses vision in that eye permanently. the damage inflicted is Aggravated the character loses hearing 
Otherwise, the condition ends when the damage that caused in the ear permanently. Otherwise, the condition ends when 
the Tilt is healed. the damage that caused the Tilt is healed.

BLIZZARD DRUGGED

Environmental Personal
Description: Heavy snowfall carpets the ground and is Description: The character’s mind is addled by mind-

whipped up by howling winds into a barrage of whirling white. altering substances, such as alcohol or drugs.
Effect: Blizzards make it very hard to see for any real dis- Effect: A generic narcotic can be represented with one 

tance. Rolls to see things close to the character’s person, out set of modifiers; the character suffers a -2 modifier to Speed 
to an arm’s length away, suffer a -1 penalty. Each additional (and static Defense, if used) and a -3 penalty to all rolls in 
10 yards inflicts an additional -1 penalty (cumulative) on all combat, including Defense and Perception. The character 
visual Perception rolls. This penalty also applies to ranged also ignores wound penalties.
attack rolls. Moving through snow is difficult. Every four Causing the Tilt: If the character has chosen to take 
inches of snow applies a -1 penalty to appropriate Physical drugs, he suffers their effects. To administer drugs to an-
rolls, including combat rolls, Athletics, and the like. The other character is a Dexterity + Weaponry attack, suffering 
Blizzard Tilt rarely applies by itself — the Storyteller may also a -1 modifier for the improvised weapon. If the drug has to 
inflict any or all of the Extreme Cold, Heavy Winds, or Ice go into a specific body part (such as an arm or mouth), it 
Tilts (all found below). requires an attack against a specified target.

281 
Tilts



Ending the Tilt: A generic narcotic lasts for (10 – the 
victim’s Stamina + Resolve) hours. Medical help, such as EXTREME HEAT
pumping the victim’s stomach or flushing his system, halves 
this time.

Environmental (sometimes Personal)
EARTHQUAKE Description: The character might be stumbling through 

the desert with the sun beating down on him, or running 
through the steam tunnels surrounding an old boiler room. 

Environmental This Tilt can also be personal, the result of a debilitating fever 
Description: Everything shudders and shakes, and rents that spikes his temperature far above the norm. Extreme heat 

tear the ground wide open. is normally anything above 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees 
Effect: Earthquakes don’t last long, but they don’t have to. Fahrenheit), whether internal or external.

When the earthquake’s actually occurring, all Dexterity-based Effect: When the temperature is far above normal, char-
dice pools (and Defense) suffer a -1 to -5 penalty, depending acters can’t heal bashing damage — the extreme temperature 
on the earthquake’s severity. Characters take between one deals damage at the same rate normal characters heal it (a 
and three points of lethal damage per turn of the earthquake’s cut might heal, but it’s replaced by sunburn or sunstroke). 
duration, though a reflexive Stamina + Athletics roll can Supernatural beings and characters who heal faster than 
downgrade that damage to bashing — or cancel it entirely on normal instead halve their normal healing rate. For every 
an exceptional success. hour that a character is continuously affected by this Tilt, he 

Causing the Tilt: Without tremendous supernatural accrues a -1 penalty to all rolls. When that penalty hits -5, he 
power, it’s almost impossible to cause an earthquake. A instead suffers a point of lethal damage per hour.
character who detonates a powerful explosive underground Causing the Tilt: This Tilt is usually caused by environ-
might simulate the effects over a city block for a few seconds. mental factors — being out at noon in the desert, or spend-

Ending the Tilt: Earthquakes are, fortunately, very quick ing too long in a sauna or forge. Even a fever is the result 
events. It’s very rare for one to last more than a minute (20 of an infection, rather than something that an opponent 
turns), so waiting them out is the best course of action. can force on a character. It’s possible to create this Tilt on 

a given character: securing someone to a chair right next to 

EXTREME COLD an old, inefficient boiler, or stranding them in the desert far 
from any shade.

Ending the Tilt: The key to ending this Tilt is simple: get 
Environmental (sometimes Personal) out of the heat. In a desert or similar environment, finding 

shade is paramount. Elsewhere, the character needs to escape 
Description: Bone-chilling winds bite through the char- whatever is causing the abnormal temperatures.

acter, or trudging through knee-deep snow takes all of the 
sensation from his limbs. Any time the temperature gets 
down below zero degrees Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit), FLOODED
a character can suffer from the cold’s effects. This Tilt can 
sometimes be personal, as a result of a medical condition like 
hypothermia or a supernatural power. Environmental

Effect: When the temperature is below freezing, characters Description: Some liquid — brackish water, mud, gore, 
can’t heal bashing damage — the extreme temperature deals dam- or raw sewage — has risen enough to impede the character’s 
age at the same rate normal characters heal it (a cut might turn progress.
to frostbite, for instance). Supernatural beings and characters Effect: Each foot of liquid inflicts a -2 penalty to all 
who heal faster than normal instead halve their normal healing Physical dice pools. If the water goes up over her head, the 
rate. For every hour that a character is continuously affected by character has to swim (Dexterity + Athletics), with a penalty 
this Tilt, he accrues a -1 penalty to all rolls. When that penalty appropriate for the speed of the flooding. Alternatively, she 
hits -5, he instead suffers a point of lethal damage per hour. can try to hold her breath (Stamina + Composure) if she 

Causing the Tilt: A character can suffer this Tilt from cannot get her head above the rising waters.
being in a frozen environment — whether he’s outside in Causing the Tilt: Normally, this Tilt is the result of heavy 
the Arctic tundra or in a walk-in freezer. Inflicting the Tilt rain, sudden snowmelt, or a broken water main. Characters 
is reasonably straightforward: throw the victim into a freez- can cause this Tilt by smashing up a water heater, or blowing 
ing lake or lock him in a freezer for long enough, and he’ll up a small dam. Some supernatural creatures may be able to 
develop hypothermia. call floods down onto a region.

Ending the Tilt: The best way to escape the freezing cold Ending the Tilt: Characters can escape flooding by get-
is to find a source of warmth, either a building with working ting to high ground, which is enough to mitigate this Tilt. 
heat, or warm clothing. A character who has hypothermia A long-term fix would require draining the floodwaters, but 
requires medical attention. each flood requires its own solution.

282 
Appendix Two-Tilts



HEAVY RAIN

Environmental
Description: Torrential rain lashes down in knives, 

bouncing high off the sidewalk. The sound of rain on 
the ground is a constant hammering rumble that goes on 
without end, like dropping ball bearings on a tin roof. 
Thick gray curtains of water obscure vision.

Effect: Heavy rains — approaching tropical storm levels 
or worse — cause a Perception penalty of -3 dice to both 
vision and hearing. Rain’s hard to see through, but it’s also 
loud. If the rains carry on for an hour or more, the Flooded 
Tilt will soon follow. This Tilt is often accompanied by 
Heavy Winds; a character trapped out in Heavy Rains might 
come under the effects of Extreme Cold.

Causing the Tilt: Short of a supernatural power or a 
fleet of cloud-seeding aircraft, Heavy Rain is the result of 
natural weather patterns.

Ending the Tilt: The best way out of the rain is to get 
indoors. Unless it’s the start of some sodden apocalypse, 
the characters can wait for the weather to ease.

HEAVY WINDS

Environmental
Description: Howling winds buffet at the characters, 

whipping street furniture into the air and tearing the roofs 
from buildings. Powerful winds can toss cars around like 
toys. Anyone out in the winds feels like they’re taking a 
beating just walking down the street.

Effect: Heavy winds are loud, so characters suffer a -3 
modifier to aural Perception rolls. Also, the wind inflicts a 
penalty to all Physical rolls when out in the winds, includ-
ing Drive rolls. Grade the wind from one to five; one is 
tropical-storm level (around 40 MPH), three is hurricane 
level (around 80 MPH), and five is tornado level (150+ 
MPH). The wind’s grade represents the penalty applied to 
Physical dice rolls. Characters outside in the maelstrom 
also take damage from flying debris, taking bashing dam-
age each turn equal to the wind’s rating. Characters can 
make a reflexive Dexterity + Athletics roll to avoid damage. 

Causing the Tilt: Heavy winds are a fact of life, from 
siroccos in the desert, to tornados in the Midwest, to wind 
shears everywhere.

Ending the Tilt: Getting out of the wind is the best way 
to end this Tilt. Sometimes that’s as easy as sheltering in 
an automobile, as long as nobody tries to drive. Buildings 
provide more permanent shelter.

283 
Tilts



ICE IMMOBILIZED

Environmental Personal
Description: The ground’s covered in a mirror-smooth Description: Something holds the character fast, prevent-

layer of ice that sends wheels spinning and people’s feet flying ing him from moving. This could be a grappling opponent, a 
out from under them. The ice can be so thin as to be nearly straightjacket wrapped with heavy chains, or a coffin secured 
invisible, or it can be a thick layer that’s the only thing keep- on the outside with a padlock.
ing the characters from sinking into a frozen lake. Effect: The character can’t do anything but wriggle help-

Effect: When a character can’t trust her footing, divide lessly. He can’t apply Defense against incoming attacks, and 
her Speed in half, and all Physical rolls (and Defense) suffer can’t take combat-related actions. If someone’s holding him 
a -2 penalty. Attempting to move at full Speed increases the down, he can spend a point of Willpower to deliver a head 
Physical penalty to -4. Any dramatic failure on a Physical butt or similar attack, but even that might not free him.
roll inflicts the Knocked Down Tilt. Driving on ice is a real Causing the Tilt: The usual way to inflict this Tilt is through 
pain; halve Acceleration, and characters suffer a -5 penalty the Restrain grappling move. This often uses material means to 
to Drive rolls. prevent the victim from moving, such as binding limbs with duct 

Causing the Tilt: This Tilt doesn’t just apply to icy condi- tape or zip ties, tossing the victim into a car trunk or similar tight 
tions, but to any surface that’s slick and slippery, including a space, or applying painful holds and joint locks.
spill of industrial lubricant or just a well-polished wooden or Ending the Tilt: An Immobilized target can break free by 
linoleum floor. Characters can use a Dexterity + Crafts roll escaping from a grapple or snapping whatever binds her. If 
to cover an area in industrial cleaner or mix up chemicals grappled, the character can struggle as normal but can only 
into a lubricant. If the Extreme Cold Tilt is in effect, even select the Break Free move on a success. If held by an item, 
covering the area with water will do the trick. the character must make a Strength + Athletics roll penalized 

Ending the Tilt: “Get off the ice” is good advice, but that by the item’s Durability. If a character’s arms and legs are 
can take work. Characters can use heat or fire to melt ice, both bound, he suffers a -2 penalty; this increases to -4 if he’s 
or throw down copious quantities of salt or grit to increase hogtied. On a success, he snaps the bindings or breaks free. 
traction. Each roll, successful or not, deals a point of bashing damage.

284 
Appendix Two-Tilts



Effect: The character can’t take any actions until the Tilt 
INSANE is resolved. He can apply Defense to incoming attacks, and 

if he takes any damage from an attack, he’s knocked free of 
whatever fogged his brain.

Personal Causing the Tilt: Several supernatural powers can leave 
Description: The character suffers from a panic attack, their victim in a trance-like state of heightened emotion, 

sudden imbalance, or a full-on psychotic break. Her pulse whether a vampire’s mind-affecting tricks, or the pants-
races, her mind cannot focus on what she wants. The world’s shitting terror of witnessing a werewolf take on an inhuman 
an unstable place, and she’s unable to keep her balance. form. A truly heroic amount of alcohol or a hallucinogenic 

Effect: Someone suffering a psychotic break isn’t the sort drug might have similar effects; administering such a drug is 
of person to go down without a fight. Her stated intent might a Dexterity + Weaponry attack, which suffers a -1 modifier 
be irrational or just plain impossible, and she might have fewer for the improvised weapon.
ethical problems with using extreme violence to get what she Ending the Tilt: The Tilt wears off at the end of the scene. 
wants. The character gains a +1 bonus to all combat rolls, but The victim can spend a point of Willpower before then to 
takes actions after everyone else (if two characters suffer from the act normally for one turn. A successful attack will also end 
Insane Tilt, both act after everyone else but compare Initiative the Tilt. If a character has been knocked insensible by drugs, 
as normal). A character suffering from this Tilt cannot spend then when this Tilt ends it is replaced with the Drugged Tilt.
Willpower in combat, and suffers a -3 penalty to all Social rolls.

Causing the Tilt: Faced with extraordinary circumstances, KNOCKED DOWN
any character with an appropriate Condition may acquire 
the Insane Tilt. The Storyteller can call for a Resolve + 
Composure roll to resist a general anxiety that gnaws at the Personal
character’s mind; if the character fails, he gains the Tilt. If Description: Something knocks the character to the 
the character witnesses something truly horrific — a daughter floor, either toppling her with a powerful blow to the chest 
watches her father walk to the end of the garden and shoot or taking one of her legs out from under her.
himself in the head, smiling all the while; a man stumbles Effect: The character is knocked off her feet. If she hasn’t 
into the wrong office at work and sees his coworkers feasting already acted this turn, she loses her action. Once she’s on 
on the intern’s organs; a solder sees her unit gunned down the ground, a character is considered prone. The character 
by a sniper while she can do nothing — the Storyteller can can still apply Defense against incoming attacks, and can 
rule that the Tilt is unavoidable. attempt to attack from the ground at a -2 penalty.

A character can work to inspire another character’s mad- Causing the Tilt: A melee weapon with a damage modi-
ness in order to cause this Tilt. She could orchestrate events fier of +2 or greater, or a firearm with a damage modifier of 
that she hopes will provoke a psychotic break, but that’s +3 or more can be used to knock a character down with the 
amateur hour. A professional swaps out her victim’s meds, force of the blow. Alternatively, a melee weapon or unarmed 
giving stimulants just as his bipolar cycle ticks into mania, or attack can knock an opponent down with a targeted attack 
dosing a paranoid schizophrenic with hallucinogenic drugs. against the legs (-2 modifier). The attacker declares that he 

Some supernatural creatures possess mind-affecting pow- wants to knock his opponent down, and halves the total 
ers that can apply this Tilt, even to characters who do not damage done (rounding down). On a successful attack, the 
have an appropriate Condition. target is knocked down.

Ending the Tilt: The specific effects of this Tilt don’t Ending the Tilt: The easiest way to end this Tilt is to 
normally last beyond the end of the scene. A character can stand up, which takes an action. A character who hasn’t 
try to force her mind to a state of balance, but it’s not easy. yet acted can make a Dexterity + Athletics roll, minus any 
She must sit and focus on blocking out the craziness. She rolls weapon modifier, instead of her normal action. If successful, 
Resolve + Composure as an instant action, contested by a dice she avoids the effects of this Tilt altogether. On a failure, she 
pool of (10 - her Willpower). She can’t take any other actions falls over and the Tilt applies as normal.
that turn, and doesn’t apply Defense against any attacks.

LEG WRACK
INSENSATE

Personal
Personal Description: Your leg feels like it’s going to snap clean off 

Description: The character shuts down, either due to whenever you move; when you stop moving you feel a burning 
extreme fear or sudden pleasure. He may huddle in a corner, numbness that encourages you to avoid action.
cringe away from sudden noises, or stare into space as waves Effect: If your leg is broken, sprained, or dislocated, 
of pleasure lap over him. halve your Speed and suffer a -2 penalty on Physical rolls 

that require movement (and Defense). If both of your legs are 

285 
Tilts



wracked, you fall over — taking the Knocked Down Tilt — and movement. You’re wracked with hot and cold flushes as a 
cannot get up. Your Speed is reduced to 1; if you want to sickness gnaws away at your insides.
move at all, you cannot take any other action. Physical rolls Effect: This Tilt applies a general sickness to a character 
that require movement are reduced to a chance die. without worrying about the specific illness. For the purposes 

Causing the Tilt: Some supernatural powers can cripple of this Tilt, a sickness is either “moderate” or “grave.” A mod-
a victim’s limbs or break bones with a touch. A character erate sickness, such as a cold, asthma, the flu, or just a bad 
can have his leg knocked out by a targeted blow to the leg (-2 hangover, causes a -1 penalty to all actions during combat. 
penalty) that deals more damage than the character’s Stamina. That penalty increases by one every two turns (the first two 

Ending the Tilt: If the Tilt is inflicted as a result of an turns, the character suffers a -1 penalty, the next two turns the 
attack, mark an X under the leftmost Health box affected by penalty is -2, and so on up to a maximum of -5 on turn nine). 
that attack. The Tilt ends when that damage that caused it A grave sickness, such as pneumonia, heavy metal poisoning, 
has healed. If the damage that inflicts this Tilt is aggravated, or aggressive cancer, inflicts the same dice penalties as a mild 
the character loses use of his leg permanently. sickness. In addition, the physical stress of fighting or even 

defending oneself from an attacker while gravely ill inflicts 
POISONED a point of bashing damage per turn of combat.

Causing the Tilt: It’s not easy to deliberately make some-
one sick. Sure, if you can get your hands on a vial of smallpox 

Personal or deliberately use a disease you’ve got to make someone sick 
Description: You’ve got poison inside you. It’s tearing (a breaking point, especially in the case of grave diseases like 

you apart from the inside, burning like acid in your gut and AIDS), then you’ve got a reasonable chance. Some supernatu-
making your head swim. ral creatures have abilities that can inflict diseases on others. 

Effect: This Tilt applies a general sense of being poisoned Aside from that, you’ve just got to expose your opponent 
to a character without worrying about Toxicity during combat. to the sickness long before you fight and hope for the best.
For the purposes of this Tilt, a poison is either “moderate” Ending the Tilt: This Tilt reflects the effects of sickness as 
or “grave” — a moderate poison causes one point of bashing they specifically applies to combat. The penalties inflicted by 
damage per turn of combat, while a grave poison ups that to this Tilt fade at a rate of one point per turn once the character 
one point of lethal damage per turn. If the Storyteller cares has a chance to rest, but any damage inflicted remains until 
to continue the effects of the poison outside of combat, he the character can heal.
can apply the standard rules for handling poisons and toxins 
when combat is complete. STUNNED

Causing the Tilt: It’s possible for a character to not know 
that he’s been poisoned. It could be as innocuous as switching 
drinks with a pretty girl who is the target of a mob hit, or as Personal
simple as walking into a house with a carbon monoxide leak. Description: Your character is dazed and unable to think 
That being said, the main time poison comes up in combat straight. Maybe her vision blurs. If she’s stunned as a result 
is when one combatant inflicts it on another. Injecting your of a blow to the head, she’s probably got a concussion.
opponent with a syringe full of drain cleaner or snake venom Effect: A character with the Stunned Tilt loses her next 
counts as a Dexterity + Weaponry attack, and suffers a -1 action, and halves her Defense until she can next act.
modifier for the improvised weapon. Causing the Tilt: A character can be stunned by any 

Ending the Tilt: Short of immediate medical attention — attack that targets her head and deals at least as much dam-
and how many fights take place in an emergency room? — all age as her Size. Some weapons have a “stun” special ability. 
a victim can do is struggle on. Roll Stamina + Resolve as a These double the weapon modifier only for the purposes of 
reflexive action each turn that your character is poisoned. If working out whether the attacker inflicts the Stunned Tilt. 
your character intends to act (meaning, takes a non-reflexive Attacks against the target’s head (see “Specified Targets,” p. 
action), the roll suffers a -3 penalty. Success counteracts the 92) count the character’s Size as one lower for the purposes 
damage for one turn only. of this Tilt. The Storyteller might determine that additional 

effects cause this Tilt, like being caught in the blast area of 
SICK an explosion.

Ending the Tilt: The effects of this Tilt normally only 
last for a single turn. The character can end the Tilt during 

Personal her own action by reflexively spending a point of Willpower 
Description: Your stomach churns. You retch and heave to gather her wits, though she suffers a -3 modifier to any 

but only succeed in bringing up bile. Sweat beads on your actions she takes that turn. 
brow as you spike a fever. Your muscles ache with every 

286 
Appendix Two-Tilts



Personal Tilts
Tilt Effects
Arm Wrack One arm: Drop anything held, suffer off-hand penalties for most rolls. Both arms: Chance die on rolls 

requiring manual dexterity, −3 to other Physical actions.
Beaten Down Cannot take violent action in combat without spending Willpower.
Blinded One eye: -3 to vision-related rolls. Both eyes: -5 to vision-related rolls, lose all Defense.
Deafened One ear: -3 Perception rolls. Both ears: Chance die on Perception rolls, -2 to combat rolls.
Drugged -2 Speed, -3 to combat rolls (including Defense and Perception). Ignore wound penalties.
Immobilized No combat actions. Can’t move or apply Defense.
Insane +1 to combat rolls, act after everyone else, -3 to Social rolls, can’t spend Willpower.
Insensate No combat actions. Can move and apply Defense. Taking damage ends the Tilt.
Knocked Down Lose action this turn (if it hasn’t been taken), knocked prone. Can apply Defense, attack from ground 

at -2.
Leg Wrack One leg: half Speed, -2 penalty on Physical rolls for movement. Both legs: Knocked Down, give up 

action to move at Speed 1, movement-based Physical rolls reduced to chance die.
Poisoned Moderate: One point of bashing damage per turn. Grave: One point of lethal damage per turn.
Sick Moderate: -1 to all actions. Penalty increases by 1 every two turns. Grave: As moderate, but also 

inflicts one point of bashing damage per turn.
Stunned Lose next action. Half Defense until the characters next acts

Environmental Tilts
Tilt Effects
Blizzard -1 penalty to visual Perception and ranged attack rolls, increased by 1 per 10 yards. -1 penalty to 

Physical rolls per four inches of snow.
Earthquake Penalty to Dexterity rolls depending on severity. Take one to three lethal damage per turn, Stamina + 

Athletics downgrades to bashing.
Extreme Cold Bashing damage doesn’t heal. -1 penalty to all rolls, increasing by 1 per hour. At -5, further hours 

deal one point of lethal damage.
Extreme Heat Bashing damage doesn’t heal. -1 penalty to all rolls, increasing by 1 per hour. At -5, further hours 

deal one point of lethal damage.
Flooded -2 to Physical dice pools per foot of flooding. Once water is over head, character must swim or hold 

breath.
Heavy Rain -3 to aural and visual Perception rolls.
Heavy Winds -3 modifier to aural Perception rolls. Winds rated between 1 and 5, severity acts as penalty to 

Physical rolls and deals that much bashing damage per turn, Dexterity + Athletics to avoid.
Ice -2 Speed, -2 to Physical actions. Can move at normal speed but -4 Physical actions. Dramatic Failure 

causes Knocked Down; Drive rolls are at -5 and half Acceleration. 

287 
Tilts



Appendix Three: 
Conditions

The list below includes common Conditions that can be 
applied to characters. For Skill-based rolls, an exceptional suc- BONDED 
cess allows the noted Condition (unless otherwise stated). It 
may go to your character, or to the subject of the roll, as noted. 

While we’ve listed a handful of recommended Skills that Your character has established an extensive bond with an 
can apply a given Condition, this list is hardly exhaustive. animal. She gains +2 on any rolls to influence or persuade the 
Give characters whatever Conditions make sense within the animal once per scene. The animal may add your Animal Ken 
scope of the story. If a Condition has no listed Skills, it’s be- to any rolls to resist coercion or fear when in your character’s 
cause another circumstance within the rules can cause it, and presence. The animal may add your character’s Animal Ken 
it’s not something easily brought on by regular Skill usage. to any one die roll. 

Example Skills: Animal Ken

AMNESIA (PERSISTENT) Resolution: The bonded animal dies.

CONNECTED
Your character is missing a portion of her memory. An 

entire period of her life is just gone. This causes massive dif-
ficulties with friends and loved ones. Your character has made inroads with a specified group. 

Resolution: Something problematic arises, such as a While she has this Condition, she gets a +2 to all rolls relat-
forgotten arrest warrant or old enemy. ing to that group. Alternately, she can shed this Condition 

to gain a one-time +3 bonus to influence or otherwise work 

BLIND with the group. 
Example Skills: Politics, Socialize
Resolution: Condition shed, bridge burned.

Your character cannot see. Any rolls requiring sight may 
only use a chance die. If another sense can be reasonably sub- CRIPPLED (PERSISTENT) 
stituted, make the roll at -3 instead. In a combat situation, she 
suffers the drawbacks of the Blinded Tilt (see p. 281) instead.

This Condition may be taken as Persistent. Your character has limited or no ability to walk. Her 
Resolution: Limitation or difficulty that heightens im- Speed trait is effectively 1. She must rely on a wheelchair or 

mediate danger. other device to travel. A manual wheelchair’s Speed is equal 
to your character’s Strength, and requires use of her hands. 

BROKEN (PERSISTENT) Electric wheelchairs have a Speed of 3, but allow the character 
free use of her hands.  

An injury can cause this Condition temporarily, in which 
Whatever you did or saw, something inside you snapped. case it is resolved when the injury heals and the character 

You can barely muster up the will to do your job anymore, regains mobility.
and anything more emotionally intense than a raised voice Beat: Danger or severe inhibition due to the disability.
makes you flinch and back down. Apply a -2 to all Social 
rolls and rolls involving Resolve, and a -5 to any use of the DEPRIVED
Intimidation Skill. 

Beat: You back down from a confrontation or fail a roll 
due to this Condition. If you regain a dot of Integrity, lose Your character suffers from an addiction. Because your 
another dot of Integrity, or achieve an exceptional success on character is without it, she’s unable to focus and contain 
a breaking point, you can shed this Condition. herself. Remove one die from her Stamina, Resolve, and 

288 
appendix three-conditions



Composure dice pools. This does not influence derived traits; Example Skills: Academics, Investigation, Occult, Science
it simply influences dice pools that use these Attributes. Resolution: Use the Condition for its benefit.

A character suffering from addiction may take this 
Condition as a Persistent Condition. INSPIRED

Resolution: Indulge in the deprived Vice, therapy.

EMBARRASSING SECRET Your character is deeply inspired. When your character 
takes an action pertaining to that inspiration, you may resolve 
this Condition.  Gain a Willpower point, and consider the 

Your character has a secret from his past that could roll an Exceptional Success on three successes, instead of five.
come back to haunt him. If this secret gets out, he could be Example Skills: Crafts, Expression
ostracized or maybe even arrested. If the secret gets out, the Resolution: Use the Condition for its benefit.
Condition becomes the Notoriety Condition (below). 

Resolution: The secret gets out. LEVERAGED
FUGUE (PERSISTENT)

Your character has been blackmailed, tricked, convinced, 
or otherwise leveraged into doing what another person 

Something terrible happened, and rather than deal with wishes. Note this Condition as Leveraged (Character). You 
it or let it break you, your mind shuts it out. You are prone to may have Leveraged multiple times, for different characters. 
blackouts and lost time. Whenever circumstances become too Any time that character requests something of yours, you 
similar to the situation that led to you gaining this Condition, may shed this Condition if your character does as requested, 
the player rolls Resolve + Composure. If you fail the roll, the without rolling to resist.
Storyteller controls your character for the next scene, but Example Skills: Empathy, Persuasion, Subterfuge
your character, left to his own devices, will seek to avoid the Resolution: Shed the Condition as noted; turn the tables 
conflict and get away from the area. on the person.

Beat: You suffer the effects of this Condition. If you regain 
a dot of Integrity, lose another dot of Integrity, or achieve an LOST
exceptional success on a breaking point, you can shed this 
Condition. 

Your character has no idea where she is, or how to reach 

GUILTY her target. She cannot make any headway toward her goal 
without first navigating and finding out where she is. This 
requires a successful Wits + Streetwise action (in the city) or 

Your character is experiencing deep-seated feelings of guilt Wits + Survival action (in the wilderness). 
and remorse. This Condition is commonly applied after a Resolution: Abandoning the goal, successfully navigating.
successful breaking point roll. While the character is under 
the effects of this Condition, he receives a -2 to any Resolve MADNESS (PERSISTENT)
or Composure rolls to defend against Subterfuge, Empathy, 
or Intimidation rolls. 

Resolution: The character makes restitution for whatever Your character saw or did something that jarred her 
he did; the character confesses his crimes. loose from reality. This isn’t a mental illness born of brain 

chemistry — that, at least, might be treatable. This madness 

INFORMED is the product of supernatural tampering or witnessing some-
thing that humanity was never meant to comprehend. The 
Storyteller has a pool of dice equal to (10 - the character’s 

Your character has a breadth of research information Integrity). Once per chapter, the Storyteller can apply those 
based on the topic she investigated. When you make a roll dice as a negative modifier to any Mental or Social roll made 
relating to the topic, you may shed this Condition. If the roll for the character. 
failed, it is instead considered to have a single success. If it Beat: The character fails a roll because of this Condition. 
succeeded, the roll is considered an exceptional success. The If you regain a dot of Integrity, lose another dot of Integrity, 
roll that benefits from the Informed Condition can be any or achieve an exceptional success on a breaking point, you 
relevant Skill roll. For example, a character with Informed can shed this Condition.
(Werewolves) might gain its benefits when using researched 
information to build a silver bear trap with the Crafts Skill. 
Combat rolls cannot benefit from this Condition.

289 
Conditions



MUTE (PERSISTENT) 

Your character cannot speak. Any communication must 
be done through writing, gestures, or hand signs. 

Illness, injury, or supernatural powers can inflict this 
Condition on a temporary basis. If this is the case, it is 
resolved when the character regains her voice.

Beat: Limitation or communication difficulty that height-
ens immediate danger.

NOTORIETY

Whether or not your character actually did something hei-
nous in the past, the wrong people think he did. This causes dis-
gust or ostracism by the common public. Your character suffers 
a -2 on any Social rolls against those that know of his notoriety. 
If using Social Maneuvering (p.81), the character must open one 
extra Door if his target knows of his notoriety. Oftentimes, this 
Condition comes from rumors and smear campaigns. 

Skills: Subterfuge, Socialize
Resolution: The story is debunked or the character’s 

name is cleared.

OBSESSION 

Something’s on your character’s mind, and she just can’t 
shake it. If she’s abiding by that obsession, exploring that 
emotion, or otherwise pursuing the object of the obsession, 
enjoy the 10-again quality on all rolls. When she’s not, you 
lose the 10-again quality. 

Resolution: Fulfilling the obsession, therapy.

SHAKEN

Something has frightened your character extensively. Any 
time your character is taking an action where that fear might 
hinder her, you may opt to fail the roll (before you’ve made 
the roll), and shed this Condition. This Condition can be 
imposed by a successful breaking point roll.

Example Skills: Brawl, Firearms, Intimidation, Weaponry
Resolution: Fail a roll, as noted.

SOULLESS (PERSISTENT)

A creature or phenomenon has stripped the character of 
her soul. Without a soul, she can’t attempt abjuration, ward-
ing, or binding. She is also more susceptible to possession 
— any dice pools to resist being taken over or possessed by 
another entity are at a -2 dice penalty. The effects on Integrity 
and Willpower, though, are more severe. For as long as she 
has this Condition, she does not regain 

290 
appendix three-conditions



Willpower through surrender or rest, and her use of 
Virtue and Vice is reversed. She may regain one Willpower STEADFAST
point per scene by fulfilling her Virtue, and regains full 
Willpower once per chapter by fulfilling her Vice. Regaining 
Willpower through Vice, though, is now a breaking point Your character is confident and resolved. When you’ve 
with a -5 penalty unless the character has reached Integrity 1. failed a roll, resolve this Condition to instead treat the action 

Beat: Gain a beat whenever the character loses Integrity as if you’d rolled a single success. If the roll was a chance die, 
because she indulged her Vice. you may resolve this Condition and roll a single die instead. 

Resolution: This Condition is only resolved if the char- Resolution: Use the Condition, as noted.
acter regains her soul.

SWOONED
SPOOKED

Your character has butterflies in his stomach. Note this 
Your character has seen something supernatural — not Condition as Swooned (Character). He may have multiple 

overt enough to terrify her, but unmistakably otherworldly. instances of this Condition, reflecting affection for multiple 
How your character responds to this is up to you, but it capti- characters. He suffers a -2 to any rolls that would adversely 
vates her and eats her attention. You can shed this Condition affect the object of his affection. The object of his affection 
when your character’s fear and fascination causes her to do gains +2 on any Social rolls against him. If the object of the 
something that hinders the group or complicates things (she Swoon is attempting social maneuvering on the Swooned 
goes off alone to investigate a strange noise, stays up all night character, the impression level is considered one higher 
researching, runs away instead of holding her ground, etc.). (maximum of perfect; see p.81). 

Resolution: Shed the Condition as noted. Example Skills: Persuasion, Subterfuge
Resolution: Do something for the object that puts your charac-

ter in danger; opt to fail a roll to resist a social action by the object.

291 
Conditions



Index
A 	 Your Own Angels 265

Antagonists 118. See also Ephemeral Beings and Horrors.
	 Cocky Mob Hitman 119

Actions 20, 21, 29, 69. 	 Excitable Munitions Expert 119
	 Argument 70 	 Fanatical Cult Leader 119
	 Carousing 71 	 Hard-Nosed Beat Cop 120
	 Contested 20, 21, 54, 69, 70, 82. See also Common 	 Obsessed Demon Cultist 120
Actions. 	 Slick Professional Grifter 121
	 Delaying 88 	 Trained Guard Dog 121
	 Dice Rolls. See Dice. 	 World-Weary Private Eye 121
	 Extended 20, 21, 44, 46, 51, 70, 72 Aspects 245
	 Extra Successes 72 Aspiration 25, 27-29, 82, 107, 177. See also Beats, Dread 
	 Fast-Talk 41, 50, 54, 71 Powers, and Horrors.
	 Interrogation 31, 41, 71, 239 	 Changing 28
	 Instant 20, 21, 69, 73 	 Inspiration 109
	 Intimidation 71 	 Sample 29
	 Investigating a Scene 71 Astral 124
	 Jumping 71 	 Projection 125
Reflexive 20, 21, 49, 69, 70, 88, 89, 147, 148, Atlantis 183-184
	 Repair 72 Attributes 25, 30. See also Ephemeral Beings, Attributes 
	 Research 72 and Skills and Horrors, Attributes.
	 Resisted. See Actions, Contested. 	 Mental. See Mental Attribute.
	 Rote 72 	 Physical. See Physical Attributes.
	 Samples 31-43 	 Social. See Social Attributes.
	 Shadowing a Mark 72 	 Tasks 69
	 Sneaking 72
	 Successive Attempts 72
	 Tainted. See Clue Tags, Tainted. B
	 Teamwork 72
	 Tilt. See Tilt. Beats 20, 21, 28, 76, 93. See also Aspiration, Experiences, 
Advantages. See Character, Advantages; Ephemeral and Horrors, Beats. 
Beings, Advantages; and Horrors, Advantages Beast 20
Age of Osiris 164. See all Protokingdoms. Black Sun 165, 167
Ancient Ones 162, 163, 167. See also Furies. 	 Toltec Map 165, 167
	 City of the Ancients 162-164 Black Tide, The 182-184. See also God-Machine.
Angels 118, 122, 124, 126-128, 130, 134, 137, 138, 162, 	 Atlantis. See Atlantis.
174-177, 182, 184-186, 202, 207, 215, 219, 220, 225, 227, 	 Bermuda Triangle 182-183
231, 232, 240. See also Ancient Ones and Ephemeral Beings. 	 Sava Vaselko 183
	 Fallen 20, 253 Breaking Points 20, 29-30, 57, 73-75, 83, 87. See also 
	 The Architect 253-254 Beats, Experience, Meditation, and Integrity.
	 Black Nathaniel 207-208, 254-255 	 Determining 74
	 Blind Serpents 233-234, 255, 264-265 	 Modifiers 74
	 The Candle Maker 264-266
	 Clockwork Servitors 218, 220, 255-257
	 Dalga: The Creators of Servitors 191, 220, 256-257 C
	 Emilio Rubio 249, 257-258
	 Grief 208-209, 258-259 Cabal 51, 167, 185 

Ceiba 165
	 Jenn 200, 258-259
	 Kalka 226-227, 258-260 Celebrant 191, 195, 231-232. See also Demons.

Chance Die 20-21
	 The Lady in Red 253, 264, 266
	 Mirror Vulture 215, 253, 260-261 Changeling 20, 171
	 Mr. Nose 191, 223-224, 261-262 Characters 24
	 Officer Strait 204, 261-262 	 Benjamin Wayne Masters 240-242
	 Polis Men 202-203, 261-262 	 Dr. Henri Girard 192, 228-230, 241-243

	 Joseph Moore 242-244
	 Rasha 236, 237, 261, 263
	 Serotonin 225, 263-264 	 Lucien McJack 214-215, 242, 244-245, 260
	 Triage 233-235, 255, 264-265 	 Margret Avery 242, 245

	 Mark Wilson, “Truth” 246, 250	

292 
index



	 Melissa Charles 169, 247, 250 	 Tilts 93
	 Lieutenant Samuel Hackett 248-250 	 Unarmed 89
	 Sarah Andrews 190, 206, 249-250 	 Weapons and Armor 94
	 Wesley Cote 189, 208-209, 250, 258 	 Wound Penalties 95
	 West Nautical 36 190, 221-222, 249, 251-253 Common Actions 70
Character Creation 24, 29, 43, 74, 186, 197 	 Argument 70
	 Advantages 20-21, 26-27 	 Carousing 71
	 Anchors 21, 25, 27, 73, 122. See also Vice and Virtue. 	 Fast-Talk 71
	 Attributes. See Attributes. 	 Interrogation 71
	 Concept 24-25, 107 	 Intimidation 71
	 Defense 20-21, 27, 60, 127. See also Combat, 	 Investigating a Scene 71
Defense. 	 Jumping 71
	 Health 20, 21, 26, 95. 	 Repair 72
	 Initiative 21, 27, 73 	 Research 72
	 Integrity 20, 26. See also Breaking Point, Vice and 	 Shadowing a Mark 72
Virtue. 	 Sneaking 72
	 Merits. See Merits. Conditions 69-70, 74-76
	 Quick Reference 27 	 Amnesia (Persistent) 288
	 Size 26, 47, 49 	 Blind 288
	 Skills. See Skills. 	 Broken (Persistent) 288
	 Speed 26, 84 	 Bonded 288
	 Willpower 20-21, 26-28, 73. See also Vice and Virtues. 	 Connected 288
Chases 84 	 Crippled (Persistent) 288
	 The Edge 84 	 Deprived 288
	 Modifiers 84 	 Embarrassing Secret 289
	 Pursuit and Evasion 85 	 Fugue (Persistent) 289
	 Seizing the Edge 85 	 Guilty 289
	 The Social Chase 86 	 Improvised 76
Chronicle Tracks 188, 196 	 Informed 289
	 Protect and Serve 188 	 Inspired 289
	 Rage Against The God-Machine 190 	 Leveraged 289
	 Space & Time 191 	 Lingering 76
	 Wanderers 192 	 Lost 289
Clue Tags 80 	 Madness (Persistent) 289
	 Incomplete 80 	 Mute (Persistent) 290
	 Tainted 80 	 Notoriety 290
	 Uncovering the Truth 81 	 Obsession 290
Combat 87. See also Damage and Rule, Beaten Down & Surrender 	 Shaken 290
	 Aggravated (Damage) 20, 95-96, 99 	 Soulless (Persistent) 290
	 Attack 88 	 Spooked 291
	 Bashing 20 	 Steadfast 291
	 Close 20 	 Swooned 291
	 Combat Pool 87 Contested Resistance 87
	 Combat Summary Chart 91 Corpus 126-129, 134-135. See also Ephemeral Beings.
	 Cover and Concealment 90 Cult of the Wheel, The 181-182. See also God-Machine. 
	 Defense 88, 90 	 Spokes 181
	 Delaying Actions 88 	 Wrights 181
	 Dice Pools 88
	 Dodge 88
	 Down and Dirty Combat 87 D
	 Extreme Environments 97
	 Healing 95 Damage 20, 89, 95, 97-98. See also Combat.
	 Initiative 21, 88 	 Lethal 256
	 Injury and Healing 95 David Hughes 165. See also Electromagnetic Spectrum.
	 Intent 86 Deception 40
	 Killing Blow 93 Degeneration 57
	 Movement 92 Demon 70, 83, 144, 162, 164, 185, 231. See also Ancient 
	 Objects 96 Ones.
	 Offhand Attack 92 Derangement 138
	 Ranged 21, 90 Dice 18, 20-21, 68-69, 85, 101. See also Actions and Attributes.
	 Sources of Harm. See Sources of Harm. 	 8 Again 20, 46, 72
	 Specified Targets 92 	 9 Again 20, 46, 72
	 Summary Chart 91 	 10 Again 20, 65, 85, 
	 Surprise 88 	 Dice Pool 21, 69-70, 79, 87-88, 90, 91

293 
index



	 Exceptional Success 21, 69-70 	 Corpus 126-129, 131
Door 81. See also Social Maneuvering. 	 Demons. See Demons.
	 Aspirations 82 	 Ephemeral Traits 125
	 Failure 82 	 Essence 123-124, 126-127
	 First Impressions 81 	 Ghosts. See Ghosts.
	 Forcing Doors 83 	 Honorary Rank. See Rules, Honorary Rank.
	 Go With The Flow 82. See also Beats. 	 Influence 57, 126, 130-132, 139-140
	 Offer an Alternative 82. See also Condition. 	 Invisible Incursions 122
	 Opening Doors 82 	 The Gauntlet 126. See also Rules, Gauntlet Strength.
	 Resolution 82 	 Manifestation 122, 126, 128, 130-132, 136, 139 
	 Soft Leverage 81 	 Mortal Interaction 138
Dot 21 	 Numina. See Numina.
Dramatic Failure 20-21, 69-70, 74, 76. See also Dice. 	 Other Entities 124
Dread Powers 144. See also Horrors. 	 Possession 122, 134
	 Beastmaster 145 	 Rank 125
	 Chameleon Horror 145, 153, 155, 267 	 Research 139
	 Discorporate 131, 145, 254-264 	 Size 127
	 Eye Spy 145, 152 	 Spirit Flowchart 132
	 Fire Elemental 145 	 Spirits. See Spirits.
	 Gremlin 145 	 Supernatural Tolerance. See Rules, Supernatural 
	 Home Ground 145, 152, 154 Tolerance. 
	 Hunter’s Senses 145, 150, 157 	 Summoning and Exorcism 139
	 Hypnotic Gaze 125, 145, 149, 153 	 Traits 125
	 Immortal 145, 153 	 Twilight 122-129, 131, 138, 140, 216-218. 
	 Influence 145, 152 	 Warding and Binding 140
	 Jump Scare 146, 154-155 Ephemeral Influence and Manifestation Conditions 126, 
	 Know Soul 146, 153 132. See also Ephemeral Beings.
	 Madness and Terror 146, 149, 152 	 Anchor 133
	 Maze 146, 154 	 Claimed 133
	 Miracle 146, 153, 158 	 Controlled 133
	 Mist Form 147 	 Fettered 133
	 Natural Weapons 147, 150, 153, 155-156 	 Infrastructure 134
	 Numen 147 	 Materialized 134
	 Prodigious Leap 147 	 Open 134
	 Reality Stutter 147, 155 	 Possessed 134
	 Regenerate 138, 147, 255, 261 	 Reaching 135
	 Skin-Taker 147 	 Resonant 135
	 Snare 147, 152, 267 	 Shadow Gate 136
	 Soul Thief 144, 147, 153 	 Underworld Gate 136
	 Surprise Entrance 148-149, 154-155, 267 	 Urged 136
	 Toxic 148, 150 Ephemera 118, 122-123, 125, 129, 134. See also 
	 Unbreakable 148, 150 Ephemeral Beings. 
	 Wall Climb 148 Equipment 69, 100, 270
Dreamers 200-201 	 Armor 270
Dreamsongs 164 	 Availability and Procurement 100
Durability 21, 91, 96, 99 	 Building 101-102
Duration 20, 130, 132 	 Circumstance 69

	 Conditions, Fragile and Volatile, 102-103

E 	 Dice Bonuses 100
	 Jury Rigging 102
	 Mental 270

Electromagnetic Spectrum 165 	 Mystical 100
Ephemeral Beings 57, 118, 122, 124-126. See also 	 Physical 274
God-Machine. 	 Repair, Modifications and Upgrades 103
	 Abjuration 133, 139, 140 	 Services 277
	 Advantages 127 	 Size, Durability, and Structure 100
	 Ancient Ones. See Ancient Ones. 	 Social 277
	 Angels. See Angels. 	 Types 100
	 Attributes and Skills 127 	 Weapons 268
	 Avernian Gateways 131, 134, 136 Essence. See Ephemeral Beings, Essence.
	 Bans 128, 135, 139-140, 149, 153-154, 267 Experience 20-21, 44, 68, 73, 76-77, 113. See also Beats.
	 Banes 128-129, 135, 139-140, 149-150, 153, 157, 267 	 Costs 77
	 Combat 129. See also Corpus and Twilight.
	 Contact 139

294 
index



F 	 Attributes 142
	 Beats 141
	 Brief Nightmares 143

Fallen Angel 253. See also Angel. 	 Concept 141
Fallen World, The 20 	 Creation Quick Reference 144
Fate See Rules, Fate. 	 Defense 143
Fighting Merits 60 	 Dread Powers. See Dread Powers.
	 Armed Defense 60 	 Ephemeral Beings. See Ephemeral Beings.
	 Cheap Shot 61 	 Health 143 
	 Choke Hold 61 	 Initiative Modifier 143 
	 Close Quarters Combat 61 	 Integrity 143
	 Defensive Combat 61 	 Merits 142
	 Fighting Finesse 61 	 Monsters. See Monsters.
	 Firefight 61 	 Nightmare Dice Pool 143. See also Dread Powers.
	 Grappling 62 	 Potency 141
	 Heavy Weapons 62 	 Size 143
	 Improvised Weaponry 62 	 Skills 142
	 Iron Skin 63 	 Speed 143
	 Light Weapons 63 	 Weakness 143 
	 Marksmanship 63 	 Willpower 143
	 Martial Arts 63
	 Police Tactics 64
	 Shiv 64 I
	 Street Fighting 65
	 Unarmed Defense 65 Initiate 51-52
First Children 162-163. See also Ancient Ones. Initiative. See Combat, Initiative.
First Time 164. See also Age of Osiris and Protokingdoms. Inspirational Media 18-19
Forsaken 20, 155, 171 	 Horror and Drama 18	
Free Will 177. See also God-Machine. 	 Lexicon 20-21
Furies 163 	 Other Chronicles of Darkness 20
	 Death 163 	 Storytelling System Books 19
	 Silence 163 Integrity 20, 21, 26-27, 73. See also Vice and Virtue.
	 Strife 163 	 Breaking Points. See Breaking Points.
	 Torment 163 	 Meditation 75 

	 Modifiers 74

G 	 Roll Results 74
Investigation 33, 77
	 Clue Elements 80

Gauntlet, the 123-124, 126-127, 131, 135-136. See also 	 Clue Tags. See Clue Tags.
Shadow World. 	 Frame the Action 78
	 Breach 131 	 Quick Reference 78
	 Strength 126 	 Relevant Traits
Ghosts 122-130. See also Ephemeral Beings. 	 Uncovering the Truth 81
Ghoul 56, 143-144 	 What is a Clue? 78
Gnomes of Zurich, The 185. See also God-Machine.
Gnosis 125
God-Machine 51-52, 118, 122, 124, 126-127, 130, 170-177 L
	 Chronicle 160-267
	 Infrastructure 173 Lie, The 185, 202
	 Linchpin 175 Locus 126, 133. See also Gauntlet, The.
	 Occult Matrix 173 Luminous Ones. See Ancient One.
	 Output 174
	 Sisters of the Machine Gun, Brothers of the Bomb 52
Great Wheel 181-182. See also Cult of the Wheel. M

Magical Realism 203, 215. See also Tales of the God-
H Machine, Wake the Dead.

Mankind 162-166, 184-186
Hagiography 196. See also God-Machine. Mechanists 186. See also God-Machine.
	 Health 20-21, 26, 34, 95 Mental Attributes 30-31. See also Attributes.
	 Health Track 95 	 Intelligence 30
	 Temporary Health Boxes 95 	 Resolve 30
Horrors 118, 140. 	 Wits 30
	 Anchors 141-142 Mental Merits 44. See also Merits.
	 Antagonists. See Antagonists. 	 Area of Expertise 44

295 
index



	 Common Sense 44 	 Dement 136
	 Danger Sense 44 	 Drain 137
	 Direction Sense 44 	 Emotional Aura 137
	 Eidetic Memory 44 	 Essence Thief 137
	 Encyclopedic Knowledge 44 	 Fate Sense 137
	 Eye for the Strange 44 	 Firestarter 137
	 Fast Reflexes 44 	 Host Jump 137
	 Good Time Management 44 	 Hallucination 137
	 Holistic Awareness 44 	 Implant Mission 137
	 Indomitable 45 	 Innocuous 137
	 Interdisciplinary Specialty 45 	 Left-Handed Spanner 137
	 Investigative Aide 45 	 Mortal Mask 137
	 Investigative Prodigy 45 	 Omen Trance 138
	 Language 45 	 Pathfinder 138
	 Library 46 	 Rapture 138
	 Meditative Mind 46 	 Regenerate 138
	 Multilingual 46 	 Resurrection 138
	 Patient 46 	 Seek 138
	 Professional Training 46 	 Speed 138
	 Tolerance for Biology 46 	 Sign 138
	 Trained Observer 46 	 Stalwart 138
	 Vice-Ridden 46 	 Telekinesis 138
	 Virtuous 46
Mental Skills 31. See also Skills.
	 Academics 31 O
	 Computer 32
	 Crafts 32 Osiris 164
	 Investigation 33
	 Medicine 34 P
	 Occult 34
	 Politics 34 Packet Theta 167. See also Ancient Ones.
	 Science 35 Pandemonium 231
Merits 43. See also Maneuvers. Physical Attributes 30, 36. See also Attributes.
	 Citywalker 236 	 Dexterity 30
	 Fighting. See Fighting Merits. 	 Stamina 31
	 Mental. See Mental Merits. 	 Strength 30
	 Physical. See Physical Merits. Physical Merits 46. See also Merits.
	 Renaming 43 	 Ambidextrous 46,
	 Sanctity 43 	 Automotive Genius 46
	 Social. See Social Merits. 	 Crack Driver 46
	 Style 43 	 Demolisher 46
	 Supernatural. See Supernatural Merits. 	 Double Jointed 46
Monsters 148-159 	 Giant 46
	 Black-Eyed Kids 148 	 Hardy 46
	 The Horde 149 	 Greyhound 48
	 Environmental Tilt: Zombies! 150 	 Iron Stamina 48
	 The House That Hates 150 	 Parkour 48
	 Jersey Devil 152 	 Quick Draw 49
	 Mothman 153 	 Relentless 49
	 Mr. Let-Me-In 154 	 Seizing the Edge 49
	 Nibbles the Clown 154 	 Sleight of Hand 49
	 Pretty, Pretty, Princess 155 	 Small-Framed 49
	 Rachel Hrafn 156 	 Stunt Driver 49
	 The Swimming Hole 157 Physical Skills 36, 274. See also Skills.
	 Vanishing Hitchhiker 158 	 Athletics 36
Morality 27, 174 	 Brawl 36

	 Drive 37
N 	 Firearms 37

	 Larceny 38
Numina 75, 118, 125, 128, 130, 136. See also Ephemeral 	 Stealth 38
Beings. 	 Survival 38
	 Aggressive Meme 136 	 Weaponry 39
	 Awe 136 Point 21
	 Blast 136 Professions 47. See Mental Merits.

296 
index



Promethean 20, 171 	 Mentor 51
Protokingdoms 164 	 Mystery Cult Initiation 51

	 Pusher 53

R 	 Resources 53
	 Retainer 53
	 Safe Place 54

Requiem 20, 125, 231 	 Small Unit Tactics 54
Resistance 21, 70, 125 	 Spin Doctor 54
Resurrection 187, 214 	 Staff 54
Revenant 141 	 Status 54-55
Roll. See Dice 	 Striking Looks 54
Rules 	 Sympathetic 55
	 Beaten Down & Surrender 87. See also Chases.	 	 Table Turner 55
	 Citywalker 236. See also Tales of the God-Machine, 	 Takes One to Know One 55
Urban Wandering. 	 Taste 55
	 Esoteric Armory 139. See also Ephemeral Beings and 	 True Friend 56
Equipment. 	 Untouchable 56
	 Fate 177. See also Aspiration and God-Machine. Social Skills 40. See also Skills.
	 Gauntlet Strength 126. See also Ephemeral Beings. 	 Animal Ken 40
	 Honorary Rank 128. See also Ephemeral Beings. 	 Empathy 40 
	 Supernatural Tolerance 70, 125. See also Actions and 	 Expression 41
Attributes. 	 Intimidation 41

	 Persuasion 41
S 	 Socialize 42

	 Streetwise 42
Sample Cults 52. See also Social Merits. 	 Subterfuge 43
Scene 21, 73 Soul 290
Second Children 162-164, 166-167. See also Demon. Sources of Harm 96
Seeming 137 	 Disease 96
Shadow World 122, 126, 128. See also Ephemeral Beings. 	 Drugs 96
Skills 26, 31 	 Electricity 96
	 Mental. See Mental Skills. 	 Extreme Environments 97
	 Physical. See Physical Skills. 	 Falling 97
	 Social. See Social Skills. 	 Fire 98
	 Specialties 21, 26, 31, 73 	 Poison 98
	 Untrained 31 Spirits 123, 126-128 130. See also Ephemeral Beings.
Sleepwalker 138 Star Rites 164. See also Ancient Ones.
Social Attributes 31. See also Attributes. Storyteller 18, 20-21, 24, 28-29, 69-70, 106
	 Composure 31 	 Authorities 114
	 Manipulation 31 	 Community 113
	 Presence 31 	 Creating Your Setting 110
Social Maneuvering 68, 81 	 Crime Scenes 111
	 Doors. See Doors. 	 Implication 113
	 Example 83 	 Media and Inspiration 115. See also Inspirational 
	 First Impressions 81 Media.
	 Goals 81 	 People of Interest 114
	 Influencing Groups 83 	 Responsibilities 106
	 Resolution 82 	 Spines 107
	 Soft Leverage 82 Supernal Realm 171
	 Successive Efforts 84 Supernatural Merits 56. See also Merits.
	 Vices 82 	 Aura Reading 56
Social Merits 49, 142, 277. See also Merits. 	 Automatic Writing 56
	 Allies 49 	 Biokinesis 57
	 Alternate Identity 50 	 Clairvoyance 57
	 Anonymity 50 	 Cursed 57
	 Barfly 50 	 Laying on Hands 57
	 Closed Book 50 	 Medium 57
	 Contacts 50 	 Mind of a Madman 57
	 Fame 50 	 Omen Sensitivity 58
	 Fast-Talking 50 	 Numbing Touch 58
	 Fixer 51 	 Psychokinesis 58
	 Hobbyist Clique 51 	 Psychometry 58
	 Inspiring 51 	 Telekinesis 59
	 Iron Will 51 	 Telepathy 59

297 
index



	 Thief of Fate 60 	 Immobilized 284
	 Unseen Sense 60 	 Insane 285
Supernatural Tolerance. See Rules, Supernatural Tolerance. 	 Insensate 285
Supernatural Potency 70. See also Actions. 	 Knocked Down 285

	 Leg Wrack 285

T 	 Personal 93, 287
	 Poisoned 286
	 Sick 286

Tale 196 	 Stunned 286
	 Blueprints 196 Time 73, 191
	 Escalation 196 	 Chapter 73
	 Infrastructure 196 	 Chronicle 73
	 Interchangeable Parts 196 	 Scene 73
	 Linchpins 196 	 Story 73
	 Methods 196  	 Turn 73
Tales of the God-Machine 196-237 Traits 21, 78. See also Advantage, Anchor, Attribute, Merit, 
	 The 300 Block 197 and Skill.
	 Do-Over 199 	 Antagonists 118
	 Ghost Machine 207 Tree of Life 165. See also Ceiba.
	 A Glimpse Of Mesmerizing Complexity 216 Twilight. See Ephemeral Beings.
	 The Hatching 226 	 Avernian Gateways 134
	 The Invisible Citadel 219
	 A Journey Into Time 228
	 The Key 208 U
	 Missing Persons 210
	 The Moon Windows 212 Uluru 164. See also Ancient Ones and Furies.
	 Operation: Bell Jar 221 Undead 24, 141, 149-150
	 Proposition 279 223
	 The Scarlet Plague 225
	 This Is Hell 231 V
	 Sister City 201
	 The Squares Of The City 203 Vehicles 98-99
	 Urban Wandering 235 	 Crashes 99
	 Wake The Dead 214 	 Example 98
	 Wellington School For Gifted Children 205 	 Traits 99
	 What Is It Good For 233 Vice 25, 27-28. See also Anchors, Integrity, Virtue and 
Third Children 162-164. See also Mankind. Willpower. 
Thrall 70 	 Example 28
Tier 180 Violence. See Combat.
	 Cosmic 185 Virtue 27. See also Anchors, Integrity, Vice and Willpower.
	 Global 184 	 Example 27
	 Local 180
	 Regional 182
Tilts 93, 280 W
	 Arm Wrack 280 Wellington School 180, 190, 205, 210, 247, 249-250, 
	 Beaten Down 280 257
	 Blinded 281 Willpower 20-21, 26-28, 73, 87. See also Anchors, 
	 Blizzard 281 Integrity, Vice and Virtue.
	 Deafened 281 Wound 21, 95
	 Drugged 281
	 Earthquake 282
	 Environmental 94, 287 X
	 Extreme Cold 282
	 Extreme Heat 282 Xi 164
	 Flooded 282 	 Aztecs 164
	 Heavy Rain 283 	 Icans 164
	 Heavy Winds 283 	 Mayans 164
	 Ice 284 	 Toltecs 164

298 
index



Name: Virtue:  Chronicle:
Age: Vice:  Faction:
Player: Concept: Group Name:

Attributes
Power Intelligence O●OOOO Strength O●OOOO Presence O●OOOO

Finesse Wits O●OOOO Dexterity O●OOOO Manipulation O●OOOO

Resistance Resolve O●OOOO Stamina O●OOOO Composure O●OOOO

Skills Other Traits

Mental Merits Health
(-3 unskilled) _ ______________OOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOO

Academics________O_O_OOO _ ______________OOOOO 
Computer________O_O_OOO _ ______________OOOOO
Crafts___________O_O_OOO _ ______________OOOOO Willpower
Investigation______O_O_O_OO _ ______________OOOOO OOOOOOOOOO
Medicine_________O_O_OOO _ ______________OOOOO 
Occult__________O__O_OOO _ ______________OOOOO Integrity
Politics__________O_O_OOO _ ______________OOOOO OOOOOOOOOO
Science __________O_O_O_OO _ ______________OOOOO

_ ______________OOOOO Conditions
_ ______________OOOOO _ ________________

Physical _ ______________OOOOO _ ________________
(-1 unskilled) _ ________________

Athletics _________O_OOOO Size:__________________ _ ________________
Brawl___________OOOOO Speed:__________________
Drive___________O__OOOO Defense:________________ Aspirations
Firearms_________OOOOO Armor:_________________ _________________
Larceny__________O_OOOO Initiative Mod:_____________ _________________
Stealth __________O_O__OOO Beats:      _________________
Survival _________O__O_OOO Experiences:______________ _________________
Weaponry________O_O_O_OO

Weapon/Attack       Dmg      Range       Clip      Init     Str     Size
Social ____________   ___   ______   ____   ___   ___   ___

(-1 unskilled) ____________   ___   ______   ____   ___   ___   ___
Animal Ken_______O_OOOO ____________   ___   ______   ____   ___   ___   ___
Empathy_________OOOOO ____________   ___   ______   ____   ___   ___   ___
Expression________O_OOOO
Intimidation______O__O_OOO Equipment         Durability   Structure     Size       Cost
Persuasion________O_O_O_OO _________________   ______   _____   ____   ____
Socialize_________O_O_OOO _________________   ______   _____   ____   ____
Streetwise________O_O_OOO _________________   ______   _____   ____   ____
Subterfuge________O_O_OOO _________________   ______   _____   ____   ____

Attributes 5/4/3 • Skills 11/7/4 (+3 Specialties) • Merits 7 • Health = Stamina + Size • Willpower = Resolve + Composure • Size = 5 for adult humans 
Defense = Lowest of Dexterity or Wits + Athletics• Initiative Mod = Dexterity + Composure • Speed = Strength + Dexterity +5 • Starting Integrity = 7