A new darkness pulled away the room, 

inked out flesh and outlined bones… 

She became sharply herself 

— bone, wire, antenna — 

but she was not afraid. 

She had been pared down like this before…

— Maxine Hong Kingston, 
The Woman Warrior



Credits Special Thanks
Authors: Rose Bailey, Jacqueline Bryk, N. Conte, Ethan Skemp and Aileen Miles, without whom there 

Meghan Fitzgerald, Jess Hartley, Lawerence Hawkins, would be no Changeling.
Susann Hessen, Olivia Hill, Jeremy Kostiew, Eloy Lasanta, The First Edition authors, for a legacy of wonder.
Danielle Lauzon, Matthew McFarland, Marianne Pease, Pauline Chan, for research assistance.
Neall Raemonn Price, Lauren Roy, Ethan Skemp, John 
Snead, Monica Speca, Travis Stout, Steffie de Vaan, Eddy Webb, for creative support.
Audrey Whitman, Ian Williams, Filamena Young Emily Brumfield, for author consultation.

Developers: Rose Bailey, Meghan Fitzgerald, and The PAX Unplugged 2017 demo players, for bringing 
Olivia Hill enthusiasm and joy to the table.

Editor: Dixie Cochran Vanessa Uphoff and Michael Pietrelli, our consulting 
Indexer: T.R. Knight developers.

Art Director: Mike Chaney
Layout & Design: Josh Kubat
Artists: Pat Loboyko, Michael Gaydos, Brian Leblanc, 

Mark Kelly, Sam Araya, Felipe Gaona, Drew Tucker, 
Andrew Trabbold, Luis Sanz, Ken Meyer Jr.

Development Producer: Rose Bailey
Operations Director: Matt McElroy
Creative Director: Richard Thomas

© 2018 White Wolf Entertainment AB. All rights reserved. Reproduction without the 
written permission of the publisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes 
of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal 
use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Chronicles of Darkness, Vampire: The Masquerade, 
and Mage: The Ascension are registered trademarks of White Wolf Entertainment 
AB. All rights reserved. Vampire: The Requiem, Werewolf: The Apocalypse, Werewolf: 
The Forsaken, Mage: The Awakening, Promethean: The Created, Changeling: The 

Lost, Hunter: The Vigil, Geist: The Sin-Eaters, V20, Anarchs Unbound, Storyteller System, and Storytelling System are 
trademarks of White Wolf Entertainment AB
All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Entertainment AB.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction 
and intended for entertainment purposes only. This book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised.
Check out White Wolf online at http://www.white-wolf.com/
Keep up to date with Onyx Path Publishing at http://theonyxpath.com/

2  



Foreword	 8 Chatelaine	 52 Mien	 83
Gristlegrinder	 53 Mask	 83

Introduction	 10 Helldiver	 53 Contracts	 83
Setting	 11 Hunterheart	 54 Pledges	 84

Leechfinger	 55
Themes	 11 Chapter Three: 

Mirrorskin	 55
An Introduction to Storytell- Words of Wonder	 89

Nightsinger	 56
ing Games	 11 Notary	 57 Character Creation	 89
Media	 12 Playmate	 57 Step One:  
Content Warning	 13 Snowskin	 58 Character Concept	 89

Step Two: Select Attributes	 90
Lexicon	 13 Chapter Two:  Step Three: Select Skills	 90

Changeling: The Lost Terms	 13 More Things in  
General Chronicles  Heaven and Earth	 63 Step Four: Skill Specialties	 90

Step Five:  
of Darkness Terms	 15 Arcadia	 63 Add Lost Template	 90

Chapter One:  The Fae, The Gentry, Your Step Six: Merits	 92
The Face in  Keepers	 63 Step Seven:  
the Mirror	 21 The Durance	 66 Determine Advantages	 92

Seemings	 21 The Wyrd	 68 Changeling Creation  
Beasts	 22 The Hedge	 68 Quick Reference	 93
Darklings	 24 Traversing the Hedge	 69 Character Advancement	 94
Elementals	 26 Our Arcadian Cousins	 73 Beats	 94
Fairest	 28 Ghosts	 76 Contracts	 95
Ogres	 30 The Return	 76 Wyrd	 95
Wizened	 32 What Is Real?	 76 Anchors	 95

Courts	 34 You Can’t Go Home Again	 76 Needle	 95
Spring	 35 Old and New	 77 Needle Archetypes	 95
Summer	 39 Fetches	 78 Thread	 97
Autumn	 43 Freeholds 	 79 Thread Archetypes	 97
Winter	 47 Membership	 80 Touchstones	 98

Kiths	 51 Courts	 80 Example Touchstones	 99
Artist	 51 Motleys	 80 Wonders and Terrors	 100
Bright One	 52 Mask and Mien	 81

 3



Wyrd	 100 Lost Visage	 163 Actions in a Fight	 184
Remembered Dreams	 101 Mantle Mask	 164 Unarmed Violence	 185
Longevity	 101 Sight of Truth and Lies	 164 Ranged Violence	 185

Frailties	 102 Uncanny	 164 Weapons and Armor	 186
Cold Iron	 102 Wayward Guide	 164 Weapons	 186

Glamour	 102 The Crown of Seasons	 164 Improvised Weapons	 186
Harvesting Glamour	 103 Blessing of  Armor	 187
Reaping	 103 the Green (Spring)	 165 Armor Piercing	 187
Glamour Deprivation	 104 Challenge of the  Injury and Healing	 187

Clarity	 104 Black Spear (Summer)	 165 Suffering Damage	 187
Clarity Track	 104 Harvest of Whispers  Example  
Clarity Attacks  (Autumn)	 165 of Marking Damage	 187
and Breaking Points	 104 Feast of Ashes (Winter)	 165 Healing	 188
Clarity Damage	 105

Chapter Four:  Medical Care	 188
Clarity Conditions	 107 Words of Binding	 169 Sources of Harm	 188
Kenning	 107

Mask	 107 Traits	 169 Disease	 188
Poison	 189

Mien	 108 Attributes	 169
Portaling	 109 Mental Attributes	 169 Drugs	 189

Electricity	 189
Bedlam	 110 Physical Attributes	 170

Incite Bedlam	 110 Social Attributes	 170 Extreme Environments	 189

Merits	 111 Skills	 170 Falling	 190

Sanctity of Merits	 111 Mental Skills	 170 Fire	 190
Teamwork	 190

Motley Merits	 111 Physical Skills	 172

Style Merits	 111 Social Skills	 173 Objects	 191
Changeling Merits	 111 Skill Specialties	 174 Equipment	 191
Human Merits	 120 Virtues and Vices	 174 Social Maneuvering	 191

Speed 	 175
Contracts	 126 Goals	 192

Clash of Wills	 126 Rolling Dice	 175 Doors	 192
Loopholes	 127 Dice Pool	 175 Impression	 192
Arcadian Contracts 	 127 The Chance Die	 176 Opening Doors	 193
Crown	 128 Roll Results	 176 Resolution	 193
Jewels	 132 Permutations	 176 Investigation	 194
Mirror	 135 When to Roll Dice	 176 Scope	 194
Shield	 140 Actions	 177 Interval	 195
Steed	 144 Extended Actions	 177 Uncovering Clues	 195
Sword	 147 Common Actions	 178 Clue Elements	 195
Court Contracts	 150 Willpower	 181 Uncovering the Truth	 195

Spring Contracts	 151 Conditions	 181 Chases	 195
Summer Contracts	 153 Improvised Conditions	 182 Pursuit and Evasion	 195
Autumn Contracts	 156 Lingering Conditions	 182 Other Kinds of Chases	 196
Winter Contracts	 159

Goblin Contracts	 162 Action Scenes	 182 Building Equipment	 196

Goblin Debt	 162 Defense	 182 Jury Rigging	 197

Blessing of Forgetfulness	 162 Tilts	 183 Repair, Modifications,  
and Upgrades	 197

Glib Tongue	 162 Violence	 183
Taking Your Time	 197

Goblin’s Eye	 163 Intent	 183
Goblin’s Luck	 163 Down and Dirty Combat	 183 The Hedge	 198

Huntsman’s Clarion	 163 Detailed Violence	 184 Stepping Through	 198

4  



Clarity and Mien	 199 Navigating the  The Loyal	 239
Hollows	 200 Dreaming Roads	 220 Distinguishing	 239
Traveling the Hedge	 200 Bastions	 221 Between the Loyal	 239

Terms of the Chase	 200 A Bastion’s End	 222 Bridge-Burners	 240
Trods	 201 Tokens	 222 Carey Ives	 241
The Thorns	 202 Forged in Thorns	 223 Privateers	 243

Icons	 203 Sample Hedge-Forged  True Loyalists	 244
An Icon’s Worth	 203 Token: The Soul-Compass 	 224 Storytelling the Loyal	 245

Hedgespinning	 204 By This I Swear	 224 Hedge Ghosts	 245
Subtle Shifts	 204 Sample Oath-Forged  Creating Hedge Ghosts	 246
Paradigm Shifts	 206 Token: The Seeing Stone 	 224 Glamour	 246
Places in the Hedge	 207 The Master’s Keys	 225 Attributes and Skills	 246

Goblin Fruit	 207 Sample Stolen Token:  Advantages	 247
Varieties	 207 The Aurochs Horn 	 225

Injuries	 248
Amaranthine	 208 Other Sample Tokens	 225

Frailties	 248
Faerie Peach	 208 Hedgespun Item 	 225

Influence	 248
Liar’s Apple	 208 Ace in The Hole 	 225

Manifestation	 249
Odinroot	 208 Driver’s Little Helper 	 226

Common Powers	 249
Ogre Peppers	 208 Golden Hairnettle 	 226

Hedge Ghost Numina	 249
Vines of Bacchus	 208 Book of Things  

Oddments	 208 Strange and Wondrous 	 226 Example Hedge Ghosts	 251

Cogleaf	 208 The Ghost Waltz 	 226 Hobgoblins	 252

Jennystones	 209 IOU 	 226 Creating Hobgoblins	 252

Lancebeet	 209 Arisaema 	 227 Concept 	 252
Red Shoes 	 227 Wyrd	 252

Pledges	 209
Blood Pennon 	 227 Anchors	 253

Sealing	 210
Silver Thread 	 228 Attributes and Skills	 253

Benefits	 210
Crown of Thorns 	 228 Dread Powers  

Consequences	 210 and Contracts	 253
Systems	 210 Chapter Five:  Merits 	 253

Oaths	 212 Shared Nightmares	233 Advantages and Frailties	 253
Benefits	 212 Fetches	 233 Dread Powers	 253
Consequences	 212 Building the Fetch	 233 Hobgoblin Deals	 256
Systems	 212 Five Questions	 233 Example Hobgoblins	 257

Bargains	 214 Fetch Traits	 234 Briarwolves	 257
Benefits	 214 Character Creation  Deep Cave Monster	 257
Consequences	 215 in Brief	 235 Liza Cantwell, Age 9,  
Systems	 215 Magic of the Fetch	 235 Goblin Queen	 258

Oneiromancy	 215 Echoes 	 236 Madam Thimblestitch	 259
The Gates of  Storytelling the Fetch	 237 Mosspocket	 260
Ivory and Horn	 215 The Fetch as Adversary	 237 Trod Trolls	 260

The Gate of Ivory	 215 The Fetch as Other Half	 238 Wandering Nightmare	 261
The Gate of Horn	 217 The Fetch as a  The Wild Hunters	 262

Dreamweaving	 217 Question of Humanity	 238 Never Far from the Queen	 263
Eidolons and Props	 217 The Fetch as a  The Herald	 263
Playing a Role	 218 Hard Lesson	 238 The Wild Hunt	 263
Subtle Shifts	 218 Resolution	 238 The Panoply	 263
Paradigm Shifts	 219 Kill the Fetch	 238 The End of the Chase	 263
Shift Conditions	 219 Forgive the Fetch	 238 Calling the Hunt	 264

The Dreaming Roads	 220 Reclaim the Fetch	 239 Concept	 264

 5



Anchors	 265 Krzysztof Kowalczyk	 285 Using Props and Themes	 298
Dread Powers and Oaths	 265 Runa Tryggvisdottir	 285 Acts	 298
Advantages	 265 Places	 285 Act One: The Life I Lost	 299

Huntsman Dread Powers	 265 Hafnarhusith	 285 Act Two: My Capture	 299
The True Fae	 267 Rauthholar	 285 Act Three:  

Names and Titles	 267 Thingvellir	 285 In Durance Vile	 299
Sign on the Dotted Line	 268 The University of Iceland	 285 Act Four: My Escape	 300
True Fae Traits	 269 Hard-a-Lee	 286 Act Five: Home, But Not	 301

Names and Pledges	 270 Historiarum Obscura	 286 Act Six: My New Life	 301
Vulnerability and Death	 271 The Tide Courts	 287 Act Seven:  

One Thousand  The Court of High Tide	 287 A Motley Crew 	 301
and One Stories	 271 The Court of Ebb Tide	 287 Act Zero: The Prologue	 302

Grandmother,  The Court of Low Tide	 287 The Durance	 302
Grandmother	 271 The Court of Flood Tide	 288 The Escape	 302
The Man with  Faces	 288 Safe Hearth, Safe Table	 302
the Ergot Smile	 272 Lacey O’Donnell	 288 Lines and Veils	 303
The Three Androgynes	 272 Old Bartholomew	 288 The Stoplight System	 303
The Year of Plague	 273 Aunt Peg	 288 The X Card	 303

Chapter Six:  The Shipwright	 289 The Door Is Always Open	 303
All the Kingdoms  Places	 289 Debriefing	 304
of the Earth	 277 The Mines	 289 Customizing  
Eighty-Nine Dreams of Home, Ipswich Chowderfest  your Chronicle	 304
the Yuanfen Pavilion	 277 and Bazaar	 289 Kiths	 304

Historiarum Obscura	 277 Crane Wildlife Refuge	 289 Purpose	 304

The Dragon Court	 278 Castle Hill	 289 Benefits	 305

Society of Morning	 279 Tumbledown Market	 289 Availability	 306

Society of Day	 279 Historiarum Obscura	 290 Origins	 306

Society of Night	 279 The Traders’ Courts	 291 Court and Mantles	 306

Faces	 280 The Court of Coins	 291 How Many Courts  
in a Freehold?	 306

Summer Wong	 280 The Court of Barter	 291
Xiaoming	 280 The Court of Favors	 292 Coping	 306

Eddie and Alexia Siu	 281 The Court of Shady Deals	 292 The Bargain	 307

Places	 281 Faces	 292 Rulership and Exile	 307
Mantle	 307

Mei Ho House	 281 Wren Lamontaigne	 292
Ladies’ Market	 281 Charlotte Wake	 293 The Crown	 307

Arcadian and  
Tangerine	 281 The Pie Man 	 293
Night Market	 281 The Tumbledown Players	 293 Court Contracts	 308

Contract Creation	 308
Lantau Island	 281 Places	 293

The Council of Elves	 281 Dutch Alley	 293 Goblin Contracts	 309
Effect	 309

Historiarum Obscura	 282 The Sans Merci Tavern	 293

The Seasonal Loeg	 283 Cafe du Monde	 293 Cost and Use	 309

Spring	 283 The Exchange	 293 Purchase	 309
Debtor	 309

Summer	 283 Chapter Seven: 
Autumn	 284 Tales Around  Appendix One:  
Winter	 284 the Fire	 297 The Fae-Touched 	 310

Faces	 284 Setting the Stage	 297 Becoming Fae-Touched	 310
Armslength	 284 Themes	 298 Escaping the Hedge	 311
Masked Jorunn	 285 Props	 298 Call of the Wyrd	 312

6  



Fae-Touched in  Blinded	 327 Dissociation	 336
Changeling Society	 313 Blizzard	 328 Distracted	 336

Within the Freehold	 315 Deafened	 328 Dream Assailant	 336
The Courts	 315 Drugged	 328 Dream Infiltrator	 337
Oath Keepers	 315 Earthquake	 328 Dream Intruder	 338

Outsiders	 315 Extreme Cold	 328 Embarrassing Secret	 338
Key Smiths	 316 Extreme Heat	 329 Fatigued	 338

The Hunted	 316 Flesh Too Solid	 329 Fragile	 339
The Loyal	 317 Flooded	 329 Frightened	 339

Tales	 317 Heavy Rain	 329 Fugue (Persistent)	 339
The Promise Collector	 317 Heavy Winds	 329 Glamour Addicted  
Dark Dreams	 318 Ice	 329 (Persistent)	 339

Playing a Fae-Touched	 318 Immobilized	 330 Goblin Queen (Persistent)	 340
Guilty	 340

Creating a Fae-Touched	 318 Inferno	 330

Add Fae-Touched Traits	 318 Insane	 330 Hedge Addiction  

Advantages	 319 Insensate	 330 (Persistent)	 340

Contracts	 319 Knocked Down	 330 Hedge Denizen  
(Persistent)	 340

Drawbacks	 319 Leg Wrack	 331

Fae-Touched Merits	 319 Poisoned	 331 Hunted (Persistent)	 342

Dream Shaper 	 320 Sick	 331 Informed	 342

Expressive 	 320 Stunned	 331 Inspired	 342
Lethargic	 342

Find the Oathbreaker 	 320 Appendix Four:  Leveraged	 342
Hedge Delver 	 320 Conditions	 333 Lost	 342
Oathkeeper 	 320 Addicted (Persistent)	 333 Madness (Persistent)	 343
Promise of Debt 	 320 Amnesia (Persistent)	 333 Mute (Persistent)	 343
Promise of Love 	 320 Arcadian Dreams  Notoriety	 343
Promise of Loyalty 	 320 (Persistent)	 333 Numb (Persistent)	 343
Promise of Protection 	 320 Awestruck (Persistent)	 333 Oathbreaker (Persistent)	 343
Promise to Provide 	 320 Berserk	 334 Obliged (Persistent)	 343
Promise to Serve 	 321 Bestial	 334 Obsession (Persistent)	 344
Punish the Oathbreaker 	 321 Blind (Persistent)	 334 Paranoid	 344
Sense Vows 	 321 Bonded	 334 Ravaged	 344

Appendix Two:  Broken (Persistent)	 334 Reckless	 344
Equipment	 322 Comatose	 334 Shaken	 344

Competitive	 335 Sleepwalking (Persistent)	 344
Armor	 322 Confused	 335 Soul Shocked	 345
Weapons	 323 Connected (Persistent)	 335 Spooked	 345
Services	 325 Cowed	 335 Steadfast	 345

Delusional (Persistent)	 335 Stoic	 345
Appendix Three: Demoralized	 335
Tilts	 327 Swooned	 345

Deprived	 336 Volatile	 345
Arm Wrack	 327 Disabled (Persistent)	 336 Wanton	 346
Beaten Down	 327 Disoriented	 336 Withdrawn	 346

 7



In 2007, White Wolf released a game book brainstormed by a dozen 
people, written by 10 authors, and illustrated by 16 artists. It was the work of 
many, many hands — and it was also one of the most personal works I’d ever 
put out to the public.

It’s a bit of a contradiction, isn’t it? Not so many of the words filling the 
core Changeling: The Lost were actually mine. It wasn’t my book, it was our 
book. I think I’ve mentioned before (though not in these pages, obviously) that 
there was a year in which everyone pitched a new Changeling book. Every-
one had a different idea, and delightfully, they went with mine. The idea I’d 
pitched wasn’t much like Changeling: The Dreaming, which is faintly ironic 
given that my ideal job when I first joined White Wolf was to develop that 
game. I certainly adored Dreaming, but I wanted something less metaphori-
cal. I wanted the denizens of Faerie to be more mythic — I’ve always loved 
mythic — the creatures of irrational reason and peculiar promises from the 
old stories. I proposed something classical intruding on the modern, and to my 
surprise and delight, White Wolf went with it.

Now, again: many, many hands. Bill Bridges was the one who suggested 
that the player characters were mortals abducted, changed by Faerie — the 
Tam Lins and Urashima Tarōs, the Arabella Stranges and Stephen Blacks, 
rather than faeries born into mortal bodies. Better writers than I provided 
fiction and twists of description and clever mechanics and expressions of pain. 
Better artists than I’ll ever be gave it a face, 100 faces. 

But a part of my soul was in it, all right. I still recognize some of my 
fears: the terror of losing my family, the dread of a stranger sleeping in my 
bed. I see references to rakshasas and rusalki and other monsters dear to my 
heart. I see the poetic, strange, threatening breed of American fantasy I first 
learned to love from Ray Bradbury. Even the cover design is personal. Aileen 
and I were living in the Appalachians at the time, you see, on the mountain 
I’d grown up on. The thorns are from an Osage orange tree down by the pond 
my parents dug many years ago; the luna moth is an actual dead moth we 
found on our morning walk one day, and hoped was a good omen rather than 
a bad one. And yes, my wife’s name is in one of the illustrations, the second 
time a Changeling artist gave her a touch of immortality like that, and of 
course that reminds me again why family matters, and…

Pardon me. One gets sentimental.



But as much as I want to feel like Changeling: The Lost is mine, it’s never 
been. It’s not just that so many writers and artists built this beautiful thing to-
gether — it’s that so many players found it, read it, and loved it. Every game 
designer tries to make the game they want to play, that enables the stories 
they want to tell. If other people love that game and call it their own? I have 
trouble imagining better praise than that. You’ve put some part of you into this 
book, this system for telling stories, and people are in accord with that frag-
ment of your soul. 

And now here we are. Changeling: The Lost. Second edition.
Excuse me; sentimental again.
It’s humbling to see this game taking shape as I write this. I see other 

people’s souls in this. Old friends. New friends. I see pain and the absolu-
tion of pain, written by those who know more about the subject than I do. 
I see the desire to do right by the audience, and to do right by those who’ll 
never read the book. I see the desire to explore wonder as well as terror. I see 
meaning. And I’m still astonished to see the love of this game, the one I still 
want to think of as “mine” in some way, still a presence.

It’s not my game, of course. It’s all of ours, and it’s all of yours. It’s going 
to create more stories I’d never have thought of on my own. It’s an explosion of 
beauty and delirium — a contagion, really, willingly transmitted every time one of 
you invites a friend to come share a wicked, lovely, bittersweet fairy tale. 

I couldn’t be more proud, or more humble, to be a small part of 
Changeling: The Lost all over again. Thank you, completely.

Ethan Skemp
2017



To go on means going from here, means finding me, losing me, vanishing and beginning 
again, a stranger first, then little by little the same as always…

Samuel Beckett, The Unnamable

There was always something you were missing. Some- You know the stories. The hero leaves his village on 
thing everybody got that you didn’t, some metaphorical a terrifying journey, or the waif finds her way through the 
party to which everyone was invited but you. Someone cold, dark woods. In the end, they kill the giant or shove 
offered you a glimpse of it, of that thing that would make the witch in an oven.
you whole. So, you followed them. But what happens next?

But you were deceived. The wider world you had just In Changeling: The Lost, you take on the role of 
a glimpse of was only a sliver of a vast landscape of mad- an ordinary person who has seen the extraordinary. 
ness and horror. For a while you kept going, yes. But even- Lured or abducted by the alien Gentry, you have passed 
tually, you had to get out. the gates and Hedges between our world and the vast 

So, you did. You braved pain and isolation, and you fantastic.
changed your life again. You ran back over the line, rush- In Arcadia, the Gentry changed you. They forged 
ing toward the place you came from, the memory of all your flesh and sewed your bones, and they gave you a role 
that was good in it lighting your way. to play. You were a lover or a servant or a monster. But it 

And now you’re back. Turns out your life kept go- was never your story.
ing without you. In your absence, the familiar became Having run from your Keeper and climbed your way 
strange. You’re out of place again. back through the Hedge (and didn’t the thorns bite more 

But you won’t take it this time. You will make your place than they did going in?), you’re back in the world of pizza 
and you will defend it when your deceiver comes knocking. and Facebook and nuclear anxiety.
And if something is still missing, and there always seems to Your eyes are open now. You can see that magic is not 
be, you will find it and you will make it part of you. the sole province of Faerie. The world is alive with won-

There will be dragons and there will be sirens and ders most people never see…and rife with horrors that 
there will be all the armies of the otherworld sent to bring count on that unwariness. It’s all part of your life now. You 
you back. But you will slay them, and you will shun them, take the good with the bad, the magic with the monstros-
and you will stand on the battlements of your fortress as ity, the beauty with the madness.
they break against your walls of thorn and iron. It’s not always an easy story, not always a happy story. 

You will be free. But now it’s your story.
And none of that was a metaphor.

10 Introduction



Setting rake across your skin. You have been to the very home of 
wonder, and you have found its rotten core.

Changeling: The Lost is set in the Chronicles of 
Darkness, which portray a world like ours, but alive with Clarity + Madness
supernatural wonder and terror. For millennia, the enig- You see the truth behind the everyday. The fantas-
matic Gentry (or True Fae) have abducted humans from tic creatures that walk our streets. The gates into other-
this world and taken them to Arcadia, a fairyland where worlds of silver and thorn. Yet you’re in a vertigo, a sense 
the Gentry’s will shapes reality. that the world has been torn out from beneath you, and 

The abductees are changed into faerie creatures to can never be restored.
play particular roles in the True Fae’s fantasies; these Lost + Found
roles are seemings, which correspond to fairy-tale char-
acter archetypes like the big, bad wolf (Beast), the ice Your memories brought you home. The smell of pop-
queen (Fairest), the miracle worker (Wizened), and so on. corn at the theater, the sound of your son’s laughter. But 
Changelings turn the forms and powers forced on them you’re forever apart from them, cast across the gulf of years 
against their fae Keepers, and escape from Arcadia. or replaced by something that’s even better at being you.

On the way back, each changeling had to cross the An Introduction 
Hedge, a surreal land that separates our everyday world 
from Arcadia. Finally arriving back in the realm of hu- to Storytelling 
manity, most changelings resolve to reclaim their lives Games
— or build new ones. They’re Lost, and it’s time to find 
themselves. That’s where our story begins. Chances are, you know what a storytelling — or ro-

Changelings face many challenges. The True Fae leplaying — game is already. But we love meeting new 
may have replaced them with duplicates called fetches, people. So, if you’re new here, let’s talk about the basics.
who have been living the Lost’s life in their absence. They In Changeling, you play out stories following a core 
must often risk trips into the Hedge, which is full of bi- cast of characters as they make their way in a world that’s 
zarre creatures and dangerous temptations. And most a mix of the everyday things we know and the fairy tales 
terrifying of all are the True Fae’s Huntsmen, heartless that permeate our pop culture. It’s a lot like a TV drama, 
shapechangers sent to drag the Lost back to Arcadia. and individual gaming sessions (which generally run two 

But changelings have an advantage the Gentry will to four hours) are like weekly episodes. Secrets will be re-
never fully understand: They are not alone. They band vealed, relationships will be tested, and fears will be con-
together in courts, communities that practice supernatu- quered.
ral defenses against the True Fae. These courts, in turn, Around two to five players take on the role of one 
make up freeholds, local societies that provide and gather cast member each. You’ll make decisions for your char-
protection and resources to help their members. These acter — when her best friend betrays her, you’ll decide if 
communities can be rife with intrigue and riven with in- she grieves or takes revenge. When supernatural beings 
fighting…but in the end, those are fundamentally human ruin her day, you’ll decide whether she runs, negotiates, 
behaviors which defy the Gentry in their own way. or unleashes her faerie powers. Perhaps most importantly, 

In Changeling, you’ll play someone who’s had their you’ll tell the story of her ongoing efforts to reestablish a 
whole life taken away, and who won’t rest until they have place for herself on Earth.
it back — or make a better one. You’ll face fears and One player, the Storyteller, is responsible for portray-
uncover secrets, slay dragons, and bargain with goblins. ing characters who don’t belong to specific players, and 
You’ll walk the roads between dreams and penetrate the presenting fictional situations that challenge the other 
maze that lies behind every mirror. You’ll see the truth players’ characters. Think of these as the supporting cast 
behind all things, and you will make it your own. of our imagined TV series — both ongoing characters 

who help or oppose the core cast, and guest stars of the 
Themes week who turn up to cause unique kinds of trouble.

Like the fairy tales that inspire it, Changeling: As for challenging the player characters, it’s the job of 
The Lost can tell almost any sort of story, but the book the Storyteller to come up with scenes where the players 
you hold in your hands revolves around six contrasting have to make decisions fraught with conflict and danger. 
themes. The Storyteller narrates a situation, then the other play-

ers say how their characters respond. The most important 
Beauty + Agony question a Storyteller can ask is “What do you do now?”
You have seen flowers with colors that simply don’t When a character acts, the outcome of the action is 

exist in the everyday world, and you have felt their barbs determined by rolling a handful of dice. The basics are 

An Introduction to Storytelling Games 11



simple. You add a few numbers on your character sheet Media
(a mini dossier) and roll that many dice. You’ll find out 
whether your action works, or fails and gets your character We particularly recommend the following as sources 
into more trouble. of inspiration for the content and tone of your Change-

While players other than the Storyteller will gener- ling stories.
ally be advocates for their characters’ success, planning Grimms’ Fairy Tales, collected by Jacob 
ways in which they can succeed, a lot of drama and fun and Wilhelm Grimm
comes from when things don’t go well for the protagonists. A collection of German folklore from the early 19th 
Again, think of a television series…the most interesting century, Grimms’ is probably the source of most of the 
episodes are often the ones where everything goes wrong fairy tales you know from childhood. More recent print-
for the characters until they find a way to turn it around. ings reproduce the book’s original edition, which was 
That said, the Storyteller should make sure characters concerned less with teaching valuable lessons than with 
have a chance to bounce back rather than constantly the stories themselves. These early tales are not only a bit 
dumping suffering on them. darker and bloodier than later tellings, but also a good 

The Storyteller is responsible for… deal messier and more sprawling — in other words, more 
…bringing the world to life through description. like life.

…deciding where scenes start and what’s going on. Jessica Jones (season 1), created by 
…portraying characters who don’t belong to other Melissa Rosenberg

players. Private detective Jessica Jones was a superhero, until 
…involving each player and her character in the on- the obsessive and powerful Kilgrave made her a part of 

going story. his story instead. Having escaped his clutches, she tries to 
…putting players’ characters in tough spots, encour- start a new life while struggling to stay connected to her 

aging interesting decisions. friends through the walls she’s put up around herself, just 
in case he ever returns…and now he has. David Tennant’s 

…facilitating the actions players’ characters take, Kilgrave is a starkly terrifying example of what a Keeper 
while making sure there are always complications. can be like, and Jessica’s desperation to reclaim her life 

…making sure that poor dice rolls affect, but don’t after what amounts to a durance and protect others from 
stop, the story. the same fate shows exactly the kind of intensely personal 

The players are responsible for… drama a Changeling story can bring to bear. The way she 
wrangles with who she can possibly trust and how to deal 

…creating their own individual characters as mem- with the trauma of her supernatural abuse — and more 
bers of the cast. importantly, how she learns to trust again and heal from 

…deciding what actions their characters take. her experiences — are perfect inspirations for the Wild 
…making decisions that create drama and help keep Hunt the Lost deal with every day. This television series 

the story moving. is a survivor story that touches on very real issues, so we 
…highlighting their characters’ strengths and weak- recommend checking content warnings before you watch.

nesses. Labyrinth, directed by Jim Henson
…confronting the problems the Storyteller intro- After her baby brother is abducted by the Goblin 

duces. King, teenaged Sarah must traverse a bizarre world of 
…developing their characters’ personalities and abili- tricks and traps to rescue him. David Bowie is unforget-

ties over time, telling personal stories within the overall table in the role of one of the True Fae, and the Labyrinth 
story of the game. itself is an incredible depiction of what the Hedge might 

Everyone is responsible for… be like. Sarah’s companions are good examples of the 
friendlier sort of hobgoblin.

…giving other players chances to highlight their 
characters’ abilities and personal stories, whether that’s by MirrorMask, directed by Dave McKean
showing them at their strongest or weakest. Co-written with fantasy superstar Neil Gaiman, 

…making suggestions about the story and action, McKean’s film tells the story of Helena, a young woman 
while keeping in mind the authority of players over their whose mother is hospitalized after they have an argument. 
characters and the responsibility of the Storyteller to oc- Helena travels to an otherworld shaped by her grief and 
casionally make trouble. guilt, ruled over by a Queen of Shadows who has mistaken 

Helena for her own daughter. As she navigates the Land 
of Shadows, Helena realizes that the actual princess has 

12 Introduction



taken her place in the mortal world and is living her life direct allegory, but the stories of the Lost are very deliber-
in a way she distinctly does not want…but which she laid ately survivor stories. They’re about reclaiming your life, 
the seeds for. about owning yourself and your perceptions, about mov-

MirrorMask’s fairyland is a great source of inspiration ing beyond pain without simply blocking it out. We hope 
for the different worlds of Changeling, and the way it’s the game can help players express complicated feelings in 
shaped by Helena’s own conflicts makes it a particularly a comparatively safe environment.
good fit for the Hedge. The Queen of Shadows, alien and The game’s use of “madness” also deserves mention. 
dangerous but driven by her own loss to try and fit Helena Deriving from literary criticism of works like Jane Eyre, 
into her world, is a great example of a Keeper. Finally, the Changeling’s “madness” refers to the protagonists’ refusal 
Princess of Shadows using Helena’s life to act out their to allow either Faerie or mortality to dominate their per-
mutual angry side is a particularly poignant example of ceptions. It reflects how they take ownership of their truth 
what a Fetch might do. in the face of influences both human and otherwise telling 

Once Upon a Time, created by Edward them their perceptions (and even their memories) must 
conform to the standards of the powers around them. 

Kitsis and Adam Horowitz The tagline “beautiful madness” speaks to the unique and 
Often a bit more lighthearted than Changeling usu- wonderful position of knowing yourself and your life for 

ally is, until it abruptly isn’t, Once Upon a Time is a televi- what you truly are.
sion series in which well-known stories from fairy tales and 
Disney films are true — and their characters labor under Lexicon
a grand curse that whisked them into the real world, cre-
ating the small town of Storybrooke, Maine. Aside from Changeling:  
the generally appropriate fairy tale themes and archetypes 
with surprising darkness lurking underneath, it explores The Lost Terms
the messy human side of being a storybook character in Arcadia: The domain of the True Fae and once-pris-
the mortal world, and stresses the importance of healthy on to all changelings. Also Faerie.
relationships when dealing with supernatural problems. Autumn Court: The court tied to autumn, fear, and 
The character of Rumplestiltskin (spelled this way in mysticism.
the show) is a prime example of a wheeling and dealing bargain: A kind of pledge that changelings make 
hobgoblin, constantly there to remind us: All magic comes with mortals to hide from the Fae’s agents; also Bargain, 
with a price. the large-scale pact a Lost court makes with a force of 

Over the Garden Wall, created by Patrick nature, like a season, to protect the court from the Wild 
McHale Hunt.

Young brothers Wirt and Greg tumble from their ev- Bastion: The contained dreamscape of an individual 
eryday lives into a creepy wood filled with mysterious, un- person.
earthly creatures. They try to find a way back home while Bedlam: An uncontrolled burst of emotions a 
making friends and, little by little, helping the denizens changeling can inflict upon others, voluntarily or invol-
of this strange place improve their lives. This animated untarily.
mini-series from Cartoon Network takes place in the Un- Bridge-Burner: A changeling so consumed with ha-
known, an excellent inspiration for the Hedge with its tred for the True Fae that they vow to destroy dreams, cre-
eerie timelessness, its talking animals and all their sur- ativity, and anything else that could attract fae attention. 
real problems that need fixing, and the slow reveal of the changeling: A human who has been gradually 
beauty behind the madness. It features one of the True changed by her durance in Arcadia, becoming partly fae 
Fae, too, and several instances of what could easily be du- herself.
rances in progress.

Clarity: The measure of a changeling’s ability to own 
Content Warning her perceptions and experiences. High Clarity allows her 

to use her kenning.
Changeling: The Lost deals with heavy subject mat- Contract: A mystical pact struck between the fae 

ter, which may hit close to home for players or readers. and cosmic forces, allowing the fae to call on supernatu-
Chapter 7 includes safety techniques for play, to help pre- ral powers.
vent the exploration of painful themes from being danger-
ous for players. court: A social organization dedicated to mutual aid 

and self-defense, bound together by pledges of loyalty. The 
Abuse and trauma are part of Changeling. Not ev- courts of North America and Europe tend to be organized 

erything in the game is a metaphor, and very little is in a group of four seasonal courts.

Lexicon 13



Dreaming Roads: The paths through the Hedge Goblin Queen: A Hedge denizen so overwhelmed 
that connect to humanity’s dreams, along which the Bas- with Goblin Debt that they become even more entrenched, 
tions of individual dreams can be found. ruler of their own little patch of the Hedge.

dreamweaving: The art of gradually changing a Hedge, the: The thorny otherworld that lies between 
dreamscape to learn secrets and influence the dreamer, the mortal realm and Faerie.
performed in Bastions. One who engages in dreamweav- Hedge ghosts: Remnants of those who have died in 
ing is performing oneiromancy. the Hedge, or wisps of emotions and dreams made mani-

durance: The ordeal shared by all changelings, dur- fest.
ing which they were held captive by the True Fae. Hedgespinning: The art of shaping the Hedge to re-

Echoes: The powers manifested by a fetch. veal new paths or trip up enemies.
fae: A blanket term for creatures and things imbued hobgoblins: The fae creatures and denizens of the 

with the power of Faerie or the Hedge. Hedge.
Fae, True Fae: The immortal inhabitants of Faerie; Hollow: A safe haven within the Hedge.

the creatures that abduct humans and gradually trans- Huntsmen: Early inhabitants of Arcadia, who were 
form them into changelings. twisted by the True Fae into hunters who chase down es-

fae-touched: Mortals bound to specific changelings caped changelings.
by promises made before their durances, who entered the Icon: A piece of a changeling’s soul left behind in the 
Hedge to find their loved ones and escaped again with Hedge when she escaped from her durance. Changelings 
some fae power of their own. can recover Icons to reclaim memories and boost their 

Faerie: Arcadia, or more rarely, the inhabitants of Clarity.
Arcadia. Keeper: The Fae who kept a changeling in Arcadia, 

fetch: A Fae-constructed replica of a human being, and whose influence is usually felt in that changeling’s 
left behind to take an abductee’s place. seeming.

forsworn: As oathbreaker. kenning: The ability of changelings who haven’t lost 
frailty: A supernatural prohibition or weakness that too much Clarity to sense the supernatural.

fae creatures suffer; they gain more of them at higher kith: A refinement of seeming, granting more specific 
Wyrd. abilities.

freehold: A local society of changelings, usually Lost: A euphemism for “changeling” or “change-
overseen by a seasonal ruler and offering support to their lings.” Often used by changelings who refuse to think of 
fellow changelings. themselves as no longer human.

Gentry: A changeling euphemism for the True Fae. loyalist, True Loyalist: A True Loyalist is a change-
Glamour: The raw supernatural energy that feeds ling who retains hidden loyalties to her Keeper or to other 

the fae. It is tied to the strong emotions of the human True Fae, often acting as a mole in Lost society. Change-
heart. lings often use the general term loyalist to refer to any 

goblin: A general term for fae creatures and things changeling who doesn’t join a court or freehold.
of dubious or no loyalties; often applied to hobgoblins and Mantle: A measure of a changeling’s court status, 
unaffiliated changelings. and a mystical identity reflected in her mien. Also a Merit.

Goblin Contract: An illicit Contract, typically easy Mask: The illusion that conceals the presence of the 
to learn but with strings attached. Changelings who pur- fae from mortal eyes.
chase these from hobgoblins incur Goblin Debt. mien, fae mien: A changeling or other fae’s true 

Goblin Debt: Mystical debt incurred by the use of form, concealed by the Mask.
Goblin Contracts or when making deals with hobgoblins, motley: A small group of changelings, sometimes 
which can transform a person into a Hedge denizen or bound in a pledge of friendship.
Goblin Queen. Needle: The core identity and approach a changeling 

goblin fruit: The many types of fae consumables har- presents to the world to assert herself and exercise her 
vested from the Hedge that have some supernatural effect freedom.
on the user. oath: A kind of pledge that binds two or more fae 

Goblin Market: A fae black market, which often beings together in mutual support or enmity.
changes location, where changelings and other fae barter oathbreaker: One who has broken a fae oath. This 
for illicit goods and services. title may rightly be used until the person has made 

14 Introduction



restitution, and for a year and a day after. Often used as General Chronicles 
an insult. of Darkness Terms

oneiromancy: The practice of lucid dreaming and 
dreamweaving. 10-again: A result of 10 on any die is rerolled in an 

attempt to achieve more successes. A further result of 10 
oneiropomp: A changeling or other creature that en- on a rerolled die is rolled yet again, over and over, until no 

ters the dreams of another. more 10s are rolled. 
Others: Another euphemism for the True Fae. 9-again: A result of 9 or higher on any die is rerolled 
pledge: A sealing, oath, or bargain made by the fae, in an attempt to achieve more successes. A further such 

enforced by the Wyrd. result on a rerolled die is rolled yet again, over and over, 
portaling: The ability of changelings to escape any until no more are rolled. 

bonds or prison, and slip easily between the Hedge and 8-again: A result of 8 or higher on any die is rerolled 
the mortal world. in an attempt to achieve more successes. A further such 

privateer: A changeling who acts as a slaver or boun- result on a rerolled die is rolled yet again, over and over, 
ty hunter for the True Fae or Huntsmen in exchange for until no more are rolled. 
continued freedom. action: A task that takes all of a character’s time and 

Regalia: Six categories of Contracts for which attention. The Storytelling system measures instant ac-
changelings and Fae can have an affinity. For the True tions (one to three seconds, taking place within a single 
Fae, Regalia are also powerful tokens that represent their turn) and extended actions, taking longer (duration de-
cosmic pacts. termined by the Storyteller). Also, there are reflexive ac-

sealing: A kind of pledge that holds someone to a tions, which take no time and do not prevent a character 
promise or statement of intent. from performing another action within a turn, and con-

tested actions, in which two or more characters compete 
seeming: A changeling’s physical aspect, which in a task or for a single goal. 

reflects the role he played in Faerie and the talents he 
used to escape. advantage: A character trait such as Health or Will-

power that usually represents abilities derived from other 
Spring Court: The court bound to spring, desire, traits. Advantages are measured in dots and sometimes 

and beauty. in points. 
Summer Court: The court bound to summer, wrath, aggravated (damage): A damage point that inflicts 

and military strength. a grievous or supernatural wound. Changelings suffer ag-
Thread: The core drive and purpose a changeling gravated damage from some bane frailties. Mortals might 

uses as a lifeline to stability and inner strength. suffer aggravated damage from a dire supernatural power, 
Thorns, the: The most dangerous parts of the Hedge. such as a lightning bolt summoned from the sky. Aggra-

Also thorns, a general term for fae dangers. vated wounds normally heal at a rate of one point per 
Title: One of a True Fae’s roles and faces, which week.

manifests to interact with lesser beings. Aspiration: One of a player’s goals for her charac-
token: An object infused with a measure of fae pow- ter. An Aspiration can be something the character seeks 

er. Can be oath-forged, Hedge-forged, or stolen. out, or something the player wants to see happen to the 
Touchstone: A person, place, or object that helps an- character.

chor a changeling to her Clarity. Attribute: A character trait representing innate ca-
trod: A path cut through the Hedge, from one mor- pabilities: Mental, Physical, and Social. An Attribute is 

tal site to another or to Faerie. Also used to refer to the added to a Skill (or another Attribute in certain cases) to 
physical location that corresponds with the entrance to determine your basic dice pool for an action. 
such a path. bashing (damage): A damage point that inflicts a 

Wild Hunt: The sum of all the Fae’s constant ef- non-life-threatening wound. Bashing wounds normally 
forts to reclaim escaped changelings; also used to describe heal at a rate of one point per 15 minutes. 
a single gathering of Fae forces to besiege a freehold en Beat: A point gained for performing certain actions. 
masse. Five Beats become an Experience, which can then be used 

Winter Court: The court bound to winter, sorrow, to purchase new traits, such as Attributes, Skills, Merits, 
and intrigue. or supernatural powers.

Wyrd: The power of Faerie, the cosmic principle of breaking point: A trigger that causes a character to 
reciprocity. suffer a Clarity attack, or a player to check for losing In-

tegrity.

Lexicon 15



chance roll: Whenever modifiers reduce your dice benefit is represented by modifiers to the dice pool, de-
pool to zero or fewer dice, you may make a chance roll on pending on the equipment used and its quality. 
a single die. Unlike a normal dice roll, a chance roll suc- exceptional success: Whenever a player rolls five or 
ceeds only on a result of 10. Worse, a result of 1 causes a more successes in a single roll, the character achieves an 
dramatic failure. exceptional success. This achievement sometimes pro-

close combat: Attacks that involve hand-to-hand or vides an extra perk over and above the effect of having 
weapon fighting. Such attacks use the Strength Attribute multiple successes. For example, a character who gains 
for their dice pools. Characters gain their Defense against five successes on a fast-talking roll might allay the target’s 
close-combat attacks. suspicions enough that he believes anything the character 

Condition: An ongoing effect, which may be physi- says for the remaining scene. 
cal, mental, emotional, or supernatural. For example, a Experiences: A collection of five Beats, used to pur-
character might be Guilty or Delusional. Usually, a Con- chase new traits or to boost the dots of existing traits.
dition modifies a character’s dice pools for certain actions. extended action: A task that takes time to accomplish. 
Players are rewarded with Beats when they act on or re- Players roll to accumulate successes during phases of the 
solve (end) a Condition. task, succeeding once they have acquired the needed total. 

contested action: Two or more characters compete failure: A dice roll that yields no successes is a failure 
in a task or for a single goal. The one who gets the most — the character does not succeed at his task. 
successes wins. Contested actions can be instant or ex- Initiative: An advantage trait representing the char-
tended actions. acter’s ability to respond to sudden surprise, determined 

damage: The points inflicted against a character’s by adding Dexterity + Composure. A character’s Initia-
Health, rated as bashing, lethal, or aggravated. One point tive helps him get a high standing in the Initiative roster 
of damage inflicts one wound. Clarity and an object’s during action scenes. 
Structure can also suffer certain kinds of damage. instant action: A task that takes place within a sin-

Defense: An advantage trait determined by taking gle turn. A character can perform only one instant action 
the lowest of Dexterity or Wits and adding Athletics. per turn, unless he has a Merit or power that lets him do 
Characters can penalize a close-combat opponent’s accu- otherwise. 
racy by subtracting their Defense from his dice pool. Integrity: A trait representing a human character’s 

dice: The Storytelling system uses 10-sided dice to mental stability.
represent the element of chance. Dice are collected to lethal (damage): A damage point that inflicts a life-
form a character’s dice pool for an action. threatening wound. All mundane weapons deal lethal 

dice pool: The number of dice rolled to determine damage. Lethal wounds normally heal at a rate of one 
failure or success (and the degree of success) for a charac- point per two days.
ter’s action. Dice pools are usually determined by adding Merit: A character trait representing enhancements 
an Attribute to a Skill, plus any relevant modifiers, such or elements of a character’s background, such as her allies 
as from equipment. or influence. Merits are measured in dots, but are not al-

dot: The incremental measurement of a permanent ways used to determine dice pools. Instead, they represent 
trait. Most traits range from 1 to 5 dots, but some (such increasing degrees of quality or quantity concerning their 
as Willpower) range from 1 to 10, and others (like Health subject. 
and Clarity) can go higher. modifiers: Dice pools are often modified by a number 

dramatic failure: A result of 1 on a chance roll causes of factors, from bonuses (adding dice) for equipment or 
a dramatic failure, a catastrophe worse than a normal fail- ideal conditions to penalties (subtracting dice) for poor 
ure. The character’s gun might jam, or he might wind up conditions. 
shooting a friend by accident. The Storyteller determines point: A trait expended to gain certain effects or 
and describes the result. A player can also turn a failure lost and regained, such as a Willpower point or a point of 
into a dramatic failure voluntarily to gain a Beat. Health damage. The number of points available is equal 

Durability: A trait representing an object’s hard- to the parent trait’s dots. Spent points are regained over 
ness, based on the material from which it is made (wood time or through certain actions. 
has less Durability than metal). Durability is measured in ranged combat: An attack that sends some sort of 
dots. An attack’s damage must exceed Durability before projectile at a target, whether it’s a bullet from a gun or a 
the object is harmed. knife from a hand. Such attacks use the Dexterity Attri-

equipment: Characters can improve their chances of bute for their dice pools. Characters cannot normally use 
succeeding in a task by using the right equipment. This their Defense against firearm attacks, although targets 

16 Introduction



can penalize an opponent’s accuracy by going prone or task, one die is added to his player’s dice pool. You can 
taking cover. assign any number of Specialties to a single Skill. 

reflexive action: An instinctual task that takes no Storyteller: The “director” or “editor” of the interac-
appreciable time, such as reacting to surprise or noticing tive story told by the players. The Storyteller creates the 
something out of the corner of your eye. Performing a re- plot and roleplays the characters, both allies and villains, 
flexive action does not prevent a character from perform- with whom the players’ characters interact. 
ing another action within a turn. success: Each die that rolls an 8, 9, or 10 yields one 

resistance: Characters can resist others’ attempts to success. (Exception: A chance roll must produce a 10 to 
socially sway them, physically grapple them, or even men- succeed.) In an instant action, a player must roll at least 
tally dominate them. Whenever applying such resistance one success for his character to accomplish a task. In an 
requires a character’s full attention, it is performed as a extended action, the number of successes required (ac-
contested action, but more often it is a reflexive action, cumulated over a series of rolls) depends on the task. In 
allowing the target to also perform an action that turn. an attack roll, each success produces one point of damage. 

scene: A division of time based on drama, such as trait: An element on the character sheet. Traits in-
the end of one plot point and the beginning of another. clude Attributes, Skills, Merits, advantages, anchors, su-
Whenever a character leaves a location where a dramatic pernatural powers, and more.
event occurred, or when a combat ends, the current scene turn: A three-second period of time. Instant actions 
usually ends and the next one begins. are observed in turns. Combat (a series of instant actions) 

Skill: A character trait representing learned abil- is observed in consecutive turns as each combatant tries 
ity or knowledge. Added to an Attribute to determine a to overcome opponents. 
character’s basic dice pool for a task. wound: A marked Health point, denoting an injury 

Specialty: An area of Skill expertise in which a char- from damage.
acter excels. Whenever a Specialty applies to a character’s 

Lexicon 17



Part I

Aimee
So he’s me, kind of. Better job, better relationship with my — our — mom. Takes selfies and posts 

photos of his matcha lattes and his wife and their million adopted babies. Gross.
He’s…not married to Katrina, though. And I sort of thought we would be. I mean, I followed the 

scent of her hair back out of Arcadia. Rolled it around in my mouth like a peppermint as I ran, brisk 
and clean and full of unkept promises. When I stood in the long saltgrass by the bay to catch my breath 
on solid ground, real ground, the first thing I did was try to pick its scent up again. I thought I might 
have missed some dates, I didn’t think I’d be missing years. Well, he didn’t miss those years. He sews his 
button eyes back on every morning, thinking they’re eyeglasses, and kisses some other woman. She’s cute, 
I guess, but doesn’t seem like our type. Or maybe just not mine. It’s getting unhealthy, all this watching 
them go to work and scrolling through his Instagram.

And it’s not like I have to kill him, right? I could just let him keep a life I don’t even want, moth-
ers and mothers-in-law and an associate at a nice anonymous firm. God, I was so basic. But he’s not even 
friends with Katrina anymore. Her life, maybe I could slip back into.

That was the logic that carried me to the doorstep of her apartment complex, loitering in the lobby, waiting 
for her to come downstairs. Her voice was cautious and slow, like the words were crawling around a feeling too 
big to speak. Anger, probably. But she said she’d come downstairs. I rocked forward and back on the balls of my 
feet, squeaking in my wet shoes. I’d always been a little twitchy, but now I can’t bear to be still. I spent a lot of 
time running, my first weeks back. The continuity helped, even if it felt a little perverse.

The elevator doors opened, and I released a breath I hadn’t even realized I was holding. She came and she 
was so very the same that I blinked a little. Aging gracefully, I guess. A little sprinkle of white in her wiry 
black hair, long and full around her head. A belted dress I bought her at a street fair 10 years ago. No shoes. 
There was a wild look in her eyes that felt familiar, but before I could really think about it I was calling her 
name. It sounded high and sharp in the empty hall. Too different, even though I’ve been practicing. 

“Ja...Aimee?” She started to touch my face, and checked herself. Flattened out the betrayed look on 
her face. “What are you going by these days?”

My heart twisted. “Aimee, I guess. That’s how my roommates know me.”
“What about Lucy?” She looked increasingly less confused.
Lucy? Oh. “It’s…complicated. She doesn’t know.”
Katrina’s eyes flickered past me and she snorted. “Girl, you’re not complicated. I see you.”
My vision went dark around the edges. I took a step backwards, then too many forward, until we were 

breathing the same air. “What do you see?”
She tipped my head up to look at her, and this time I actually did. A second eyelid snapped over her 

eye and back again. Eyes so deep a black I almost fell into them. I did fall onto her. And I felt the soft 
scaling on her shoulders. Oh, Katrina.



“I didn’t…did you fall down the well after me? I never thought. Was that you yelling back to me? Oh 
god, I left you there. I’m so sorry, I thought it was a trick.” Words were falling out of my mouth, I might 
have been crying. “I would have gone back, I would have gone back, I’m so sorry.”

“Shh. If you can even think about putting a foot back into the Hedge without screaming, I’ll accept 
that as an apology. It’s been a minute, Aimee. Where’ve you been?”

She was smiling, a little. Not enough to get myself invited back upstairs, but enough to keep talking. 
“Oh, over the river and through the woods. I’m pretty sure my grandparents are dead now, though.”

She rolled her eyes. “Not what I meant. Why hit me up now?”
“Oh. Well. I’ve actually only been back a couple of weeks? And if I’m being completely honest, I 

spent most of that time following…him to work and hanging out outside your building wondering if I 
should call you.” Then I had an awful realization. “Wait. I found you under your real name. Did they…
did they not replace you too?”

Katrina shivered. Now that I was looking, the scales rippled too. Like mica and cobras and the inside 
of shells. “She was made of glass and she wanted to fight about it.”

“What happened?”
“I cracked her open and feathers poured out.”
“I haven’t. I mean, I didn’t. I don’t want to. Jesus, he has kids. He’s a he.”
“Yeah, I know. I went looking for you after I got back, too. I can see why you might want to leave 

well enough alone. Not like you wanted to be him before.”
“Well, Mom seems happy with him, and…if Lucy can’t tell, maybe it would be kinder to let her keep 

him? It seems cruel to just pop into her life and be like ‘Hey, your husband is imaginary and I have to 
destroy him so I can have a name I don’t want back. So how do you feel about a divorce and full custody 
of all these kids?’ I did joke a lot about blowing up my life.”

Katrina pulled on a curl. “Well, that’s not quite fair to her, either. Like, what if…she does know? Or 
figured some piece of it out on her own, but didn’t know what to do about it? She’d...she’d probably think 
she was going crazy, and only we would know different.”

“Hell, I don’t know what to do with my own life. I definitely don’t have any words of wisdom to fill 
the pages of ‘So Your Husband’s a Fetch: Living with the Consequences of Fae Jerks.’ She’d be better off 
talking to you.”

Katrina winced. And even as the door creaked open, I knew. “She was going to talk to you.” 
“Aimee, we have a history. If she was going to call someone, it would have been me. I think you 

should talk to her, too, but she didn’t come looking for you.”
Of course they knew each other. I knew that. I must have known that. They had lives that kept hap-

pening while I was gone. People that they were to each other, through…James. Things about him they 
shared that I’d only know secondhand. I suddenly felt like an eavesdropper in a conversation about myself. 
A lacuna in their lives that was unwelcomely filled. Lucy was looking at me like her life might go up in 
smoke if I blinked. And she wasn’t wrong.

The rain outside picked up. Katrina’s eyes flickered to my left half a second before mine followed. 
It was like someone had run a finger up the length of my spine, at first just a nervous tickle, but getting 
insistent and angry. 

I had not properly considered the possibility that escaping Arcadia wouldn’t be enough to keep me safe.






We cried and sobbed and wept and bled tears. But when we were finished, all we could do 
was continue living.

Nnedi Okorafor, Who Fears Death

You know us by the tales you tell to children. Should became our seemings and kiths, our second skins. But we 
they fail to heed, the Fair Ones will steal them away in the won’t be your bedtime story anymore. Now we wear those 
night. We were those children once. We were Hansel and skins like armor and build our own briar walls, our courts, 
Gretel whose breadcrumbs turned to ash, and we gorged to prick our Keepers’ long fingers and bloody the merciless 
ourselves on the sweetest lies and they rotted our dreams. Huntsmen’s eyes. And we’ll live defiantly ever after.
We played our roles and spoke our lines, and our costumes 

Seemings
Run, they said, and hush. Burn, they told us. Freeze and whisper. Smile. Rend apart and build anew. 

And above all, forget. We forgot, for a time, and we supped on enchantment, and the taste was honey laced 
with blight. Our captors remade us in their image, or in forms befitting our dreadful tasks. In thunder-dreams 
and maypole songs we heard the calling of home, and though our forms were new, old memories stirred. With 
sharp eye and slim shadow, with bright flame and keening cry, with clenched fist and clever ruse, we ran and 
did not look back.

But in the mirror now our breathtaking scars remain, the marks of Faerie that remind us: We’ll never be 
as once we were. Never again will we be innocent or human. Never again will we daydream in drab sepia or 
know the pallid touch of ennui.

And never again will we be powerless.
Our transformations have made us more. Different, yes, and strange. But we aren’t alone in our new 

seemings. We may have lost ourselves, but we have found each other, and in that we see what we have 
become.



A TALE OF ABANDON
His earthy scent, his arresting gaze, his rough-edged owing favors and they keep their eyes on the prize. Others 

grace. You never do this, but just this once, you take him may consider them heartless, but the Grims look out for 
home. In the giddy rush of it, of him, you feel alive. Morning themselves because to do otherwise is to give up control of 
comes like a lazy blush, and watching him sleep, you know their fates.
you’ll do this again. A Beast spent his time in Faerie unable to think be-

Once upon a time, a wild creature lived in a wild land. yond the next meal and the next danger. Whether he lived 
It had food to eat, shelter from the elements, and confi- in constant mortal fear or in the lap of luxury, the basic 
dence that nothing would ever prey upon it. One day, it gifts of language and self-awareness were denied him. The 
fell into a hunter’s trap, and for the first time knew fear. A untamed fury of jungle drums or the summons of a master’s 
morsel of food came along, with a sharp fang of metal that whistle dictated his comings and goings, and come and go 
brought pain. Another meal carried a pane of silvered glass. he did — always moving, always running. Fight, flight, and 
In the glass, the creature saw itself and knew the truth: it a longing for true freedom were all he had. Now, faced with 
was a dread monster laid low, and its prey had become the the choices and rules of the human world once again, he’s 
predators. Its heart was cowed. Despairing, it submitted to a dumbfounded. It’s easier to revert to base instinct, to let 
cage’s bars and a whip’s lash. It begged for food and pleased others do the thinking for him and lash out or flee when-
its masters to earn shelter. The next time it saw itself in the ever threats rear their heads, regardless of cost. He must 
glass, it understood the cruel joke of its false freedom, and work to keep visceral impulses from ruling his actions, 
the crueler one it now endured. Its savage heart pumped and he wonders whether he might just be faking the rest. 
human courage and forgotten wisdom through its veins. Sometimes, despite his pride in having clawed his way back 
With that, the man who was a wild creature devoured his to humanity, the temptations of a simpler time and wilder 
masters whole with his mighty jaws, and set out to keep place linger still.
vigilant watch for the courts of the Lost.

The Beast is as clever as he is wary, as fleet of foot as Once
he is keen of eye. When he wants something, he takes it. The Gentry took away the bright spark that made you 
When he feels an urge, he satisfies it. He knows that life human and replaced it with savagery. Perhaps your body 
doesn’t have to be as complicated as people make it. All he remained while your mind slept, or you roamed the treach-
has to worry about is himself; everything else is someone erous fae wilderness in animal shape — or you were some-
else’s problem. If he’s crude, it’s only because social graces thing in between. Your awareness condensed down to sen-
are far less important than needs. And if he’s aggressive, it’s sation and survival. Pleasures and pain ruled you as pillars 
only because he’d rather be the hunter than the hunted. in place of right and wrong. Your Keeper gave you gills and 

Beasts are less likely than other changelings to put a fish’s tail, and you swam behind glass in her aquarium and 
much stock in the freehold as a government or organiza- performed tricks for food while childlike goblins watched 
tion, but they devote themselves fiercely to the fellow Lost in delight. You lived in a kennel with other hounds just 
they perceive as “theirs.” Sick of leashes and expectations, like you, fighting over scraps and rutting whenever the urge 
they decide what’s best for themselves and their loved ones took you, until your master chained your collar to a post 
first; anything else they agree to is a bonus. They have little while you guarded her door. The Fae kept you in a dark, 
use for high-minded philosophies or ethical codes, view- dirty pen, but you preferred that to when they turned you 
ing survival and immediate gratification as priorities one loose in the unforgiving forest without clothes for warmth 
and two, with everything else trailing at a distance. That or tools for defense, and bid you evade their hunting party 
doesn’t mean they don’t care or can’t be kind and generous to keep your skin.
— they’re just ground-level thinkers. Lofty principles sound You learned to run and hide, to kill, to obey. You were 
nice, but they won’t fill a hungry belly. Beasts are opportu- a beloved pet for a Fae princess or a hooded hawk on a 
nistic because they refuse to rely on anyone. They don’t like 

Don’t quote your rules at me,  
I don’t need ‘em. Frankly, neither do you.



Huntsman’s arm. Whenever you showed a glimmer of inde- Tales
pendent thought, your Keeper punished you until instinct 
subsumed it again. But something jogged your memory, and He doesn’t cut the most impressive figure, and people 
you woke up from your animal haze. With honed senses tend to forget he’s in the room. He doesn’t speak out much. 
and swift feet, you seized your opportunity when it came. It’s easy to underestimate him, and his enemies do it all 
The wild roads and midnight dangers of the Hedge didn’t the time. But he makes it his business to collect friends 
stand a chance. in high places. CEOs with fat wallets, changeling 

court rulers, vampire princes; he’s not picky. 
Now He sniffs out their troubles and provides 

unexpected solutions, proving his worth 
You do what you want, whenev- and hoarding favors. That way, when 

er you want, and you won’t apologize the True Fae come knocking at his 
for stepping on someone’s delicate door, he’s got a host of powerful allies 
toes while you do it. You don’t take or- just a phone call away. And if any of 
ders and you’ll never beg for anything them ever want to betray him, they’ll 
again. You endured enough humilia- have to find him first.
tion at the hands of the Others to last 
you a lifetime, and you’ll die before She makes the circuit of elderly 
you let it happen again. But you’re homes, coming by each week to sing 
no lone wolf — you put your sur- comforting songs to the lonely old 
vivalist skills to good use for your folks and keep them company. They 
comrades, keeping watch while all say her voice is the most beautiful 
they sleep and tracking enemies sound they’ve ever heard in their 
through urban jungles. When your long lives. Sometimes she stays 
motley is mired in complex in- the night to help out the nurses, 
trigues and moral conundrums, and whenever she does, the resi-
you remind them to take life dents all talk the next day about 
one day at a time and savor the the lovely dreams they had. No 
little things. Your friends know one knows where she lives or how to 
that when cages need breaking reach her, but she always comes just 
and knights need devouring, you’re when someone is about to pass away. 
the one to count on. Her lullaby eases the dying to their 

eternal rest, and she basks in the 
Nicknames: Coursers, Grims, emotional release it brings.

the Savage
His reputation sucks, but 

Blessing: Gain an additional he doesn’t care. He knows ev-
dot of one Resistance Attribute at erybody whispers about him lur-
character creation. Your charac- ing mortals onto trods, kidnap-
ter gains +3 to Initiative rolls ping kids and selling them to the 
and Speed, and may choose to Gentry, whatever else they think 
deal lethal damage with un- he gets up to. He lets them think 
armed attacks. It costs a point it because it earns him a healthy 
of Glamour per three consecu- respect. If they knew he was 
tive turns to enjoy this benefit tracking troubled dreamers to 
if he has the Shaken or Spooked their Bastions to devour their 
Condition, or another Condition demons, they’d say he’s gone 
that imposes fear. soft. And if they heard he was 

Curse: In addition to your going into the Hedge and entic-
character’s other breaking points, ing lost wanderers to stray from 
he risks Clarity damage with a dice dark paths so he could take them 
pool equal to half his Wyrd (rounded home, they’d call him a hero. He’s 
up) whenever acting without thinking sure he’s not a hero. He’s a blood-
causes significant harm or complications for thirsty predator, and that’s the side of 
someone else. himself he shows them when he picks up a 

Regalia: Steed Huntsman’s trail and stalks it right back. It hasn’t occurred 
to him yet that he could be both at once.

Beast 23



A TALE OF MYSTERY
She’s behind you in the mirror, but you’re all alone. She Cursed woodlands grow there, too, their twisting trails 

says she knows what you’ve done. You beg her forgiveness, home to vicious tree-haunts with eyes that gleam. Dead 
but she’s gone before the words leave your mouth. What if it things rise to walk the land and monstrous hellbeasts 
wasn’t good enough? What if she comes back? guard foul, forbidden magics. A thousand leagues beneath 

Once upon a time, a traveler in a dark wood bartered the sea sprawl lightless kingdoms ruled by tyrant fish lords 
her soul for one night’s comfort in the warm firelight, and and their deadly merfolk children. The Bewitched spend 
thus gave up her face. From then on, every evening when their time in Faerie here among the horrors, abandoned to 
the sun went down, she wandered the forest in search of her survive on their own or ordered to cheat the fiends out of 
missing face. She found many others — the masques of hid- ancient knowledge that turns out to be nonsense. After so 
eous revelers, the bloated rictuses of drowned corpses, the long befriending the shadows and deceiving the wretched, 
malevolent glares of cave dwellers with gemstone eyes. But they end up kin to both, creatures of false face and soft 
nowhere did she find her own. Her heart was adrift. De- step. Once they’re free, they worry they’ve become too like 
spairing, she fashioned a new face for herself out of pieces the unspeakable things they once evaded. They know too 
of all the rest, and as she looked through its eyes she came much and fear their fellows mistrust them as traitors, or 
to know the secrets each of them kept. Knowing it wasn’t that they can no longer tell the difference between true oc-
truly hers, but unwilling to give up such a treasure, she hid cult secrets and mad fantasies. Worse, so often unseen and 
the new face in the folds of her cloak and tethered her heart unheard, they fear they’re just echoes of people who never 
to the unmarked paths the others had known. With that, left Faerie at all.
she followed stolen signs behind night’s veil to sneak back 
through the Hedge and share her insight with the courts Once
of the Lost. Dread was your constant companion, whether it 

The Darkling loves the silence and prefers to be out- stalked you from the darkness or from within yourself. Per-
side looking in — or at least, accepts it as her inevitable haps your master had no eyes and no need for light, forcing 
place. She’s the first to venture where others won’t go, you to serve in an underground palace of perpetual pitch 
where broken clues to long-lost mysteries call with fetch- black while his many children teased and tormented you 
ing whispers. If she speaks in riddles, it’s only because each unseen. Perhaps you wore a mask you couldn’t remove at 
word holds power of its own, so she chooses them with care. a neverending masquerade ball, where the Red Death was 
And if she watches too closely, it’s only because what she someone different every night and murder was never far be-
learns might save everyone someday. hind. Perhaps your Keeper forced you to collect oddities for 

Though the Mountebanks fade into the background, his display cases, catching fellow human prisoners to stuff 
they know better than to strike out too far on their own. like dolls and braving dank caves to steal moldy tomes and 
They need strength in numbers as much as any change- tarnished relics from terrible wardens.
ling. Likewise, their motleys wouldn’t last long against the But with dread came fascination, and opportunity. 
Gentry or their Huntsmen without the Hedge wisdom Wandering blind, you developed ears keen enough and 
the Darklings provide, nor would their freeholds run so footsteps light enough to eavesdrop on all the secrets your 
smoothly without their knack for espionage to grease the master’s children whispered behind closed doors, and even-
wheels. They’re prime picks for missions to recover Icons tually you knew enough to trick and blackmail your way to 
(p. 203), spy on rivals, infiltrate True Fae courts, or assas- freedom. From behind your mask, you observed the Red 
sinate fetches. Others may view them with suspicion, but Death’s patterns and solved the murder mystery, exposing 
the Wisps keep their own counsel because to do otherwise him for all to see and slipping out — just another domino 
is to expose their darkest selves to the light. — before the crowd’s shock wore off. You snuck out every 

Arcadia isn’t all lavish gardens and crystal spires. night to study the novelties you fetched by moonlight, until 
you found the one that taught you the key you needed to 

Don’t worry if I stray from the path.  
Nothing out there scares me anymore.



reopen a door into the Hedge. Through stealth, chicanery, Tales
and a curiosity strong enough to pry even into the Gentry’s 
demented affairs, you tore yourself away from the hollow She visits the children first in dreams, playing games 
mysteries of Arcadia to become one yourself in the real with them there and coaxing them out of their shells. Then 
world. she starts visiting in the flesh, careful never to let their 

families or other grownups see her. The parents think she’s 
Now an imaginary friend, and she lets the fiction persist. The 

children don’t care that no one else knows she’s real — 
You’ve had enough of being afraid. You’ll they’re happy just to have a companion who under-

never be truly rid of the fear you learned in Fa- stands them. She stays for a while, until she 
erie, but you can wield it like a stiletto, sharp knows they’ll be all right without her, and 
and icy cold. You can trade forms and then she moves on to find new friends. But 
faces to be anyone but the coward your each child carries a token of their time 
Keeper made you. You can laugh away together to remember her by. If it also 
your troubles with a bit of sleight of manages to protect its owner from the 
hand, passing them on to other people Fae, so much the better.
when they least expect it. You’re the 
one who knows it all, who goes any- He has a trunk full of stolen uni-
where you please, and it frees you in forms, fake IDs, and stage makeup. 
a way the other Lost can’t under- Every town knows him by a different 
stand. No more eyes following alias and profession. Every town hides 
you wherever you go. No more skeletons in its closet, and he plays 
barriers between you and the un- his part for as long as it takes to brush 
known you’ve come to love. You the dust from their bones and expose 
spy and thieve on your own terms, them to the press. Even his fellow Lost 
and demand whatever you want in don’t know whether they’ve ever seen 
return — because they know you his true face or heard his real name. 
could just take it if they refuse. He won’t talk about his time in Faerie; 
You may be often overlooked, but in truth, he can’t. All he knows is 
your friends know that for all you that he bargained away his identity 
seem shy or hesitant, you’re the one and his memories to give someone 
who’s always heard the right whisper else a chance to escape the Hedge. 
or read the right book. Now he doesn’t remember whether 

the one with whom he made the 
Nicknames: the Bewitched, trade was the sort to live and let 

Mountebanks, Wisps live, or the sort to give a man a taste 
Blessing: Gain an additional of his own medicine.

dot of one Finesse Attribute at She seems like a harmless va-
character creation. If you spend grant when she wanders the streets 
a point of Willpower, your charac- and subway stations, begging for 
ter may touch something insub- coin. The rude commuter who 
stantial and become part of it for shouts obscenities at her goes 
three consecutive turns, transub- out later with a gorgeous date 
stantiating into smoke, shadow, a who skips out and leaves him 
sunbeam — whatever’s handy. This with the bill. The kind passerby 
ability costs a point of Glamour if who fills her jar with dollar bills 
anyone is looking directly at her at meets a stranger the next day 
the time. who brings home his lost dog. She 

Curse: In addition to your lives at the junkyard, scavenging 
character’s other breaking points, the detritus of other people’s lives 
she risks Clarity damage with a dice and frequenting the Goblin Market 
pool equal to half her Wyrd (rounded no one else notices there. She’ll share 
up) whenever a secret or important piece her peculiarly prophetic advice with any-
of information she knows turns out to be false. one who seeks her out, but anyone who accepts 

Regalia: Mirror her wisdom must also accept a task, and those who fail find 
their worldly possessions becoming detritus in a hurry.

Darkling 25



A TALE OF METAMORPHOSIS
You mean to turn the kid away, just as you’ve done every identify with their specific natures more than most, and 

other day, but today you open the door instead. In his simple even two with the same elemental association can differ 
smile and dismissive glance you see that he knew you would, wildly in approach and temperament. They have a strange 
all along. He breezes past you. He said you couldn’t hold out relationship with change — some find their moods swing-
forever, and he was right. ing with the weather or the moon’s phase, fluid like water or 

Once upon a time, a boulder stood blocking the en- mercurial like flame; some have trouble quitting habits and 
trance to a cave in which there lived a sad young man. detest uncertainty, immovable like stone or unbending like 
Day after day, the boulder watched the young man pace steel. Other Lost may call them incorrigible, but the Tor-
and sigh, heard him sing a mournful tune and speak in his rents listen to their gut intuition because to do otherwise is 
sleep about places far away. The boulder came to love him. to deny who they are.
Worse, it understood how it caused his sorrow by keeping The Gentry transformed an Elemental into some-
him prisoner, but it could only move aside at the command thing completely alien. Often it was some manifestation 
of the Faerie who visited to bring food. The man grew pal- of the classical elements, like a bonfire or a storm, but it 
er and weaker, and ever lonelier. The boulder’s heart was also could have been an inanimate object, a living plant, 
moved. Despairing, it tried to beg the Faerie to set him free, or a clockwork automaton. It warped the way he thought 
but all it could do was rumble the earth. One day, the Fa- and perceived, and now that he’s returned, it’s hard to bend 
erie struck the man, blaming him for the earthquakes. The his mind back into its former shape. He’s transcendent and 
boulder could abide it no longer. In its rage, it shook the yet more single-minded. He understands function better 
cave, burying man and Faerie under a ton of rubble. Griev- than form, and purpose better than reason. It’s difficult to 
ing and without purpose, it remembered the man’s dreams consider the consequences of his actions beyond the im-
of faraway lands and vowed to return his body there. Its mediate, and he doesn’t care to. He lives moment to mo-
heart transformed fully from stone to flesh. With that, the ment, trying to recapture the heady purity of what he was 
man who was a boulder carried his lost love back through in Arcadia without the shackles. All this makes him the 
the Hedge to stand sentinel for the courts of the Lost. odd man out. He may dearly wish to tune in to his motley’s 

The Elemental is a force of nature, but more than wavelength, but the wind’s howling speaks his language 
that, he commands nature. Fire has no volition of its own; more clearly, and he fears — yet secretly hopes — that one 
it burns indiscriminately, devouring fuel because it has no day he’ll forget how to speak anything else.
other purpose. With the indomitable will of a changeling 
to guide it, it becomes something greater. He is vaster in Once
spirit than mere humans could ever understand. Nothing You were a mighty phenomenon or a work of art chained 
can contain him or deter him from his course. If no place to the will of your Keeper, possessed of wondrous new senses 
exists for him, he carves one out. If he overwhelms, it’s only and sensations but bound to perform your duty. As fire, you 
because he can’t remember how to tone it down. And if he’s longed to burn bright and hot, consuming all and reaching up 
self-aggrandizing, it’s only because he sees himself reflected to the heavens, but you could not escape the confines of your 
in all the world’s most magnificent miracles. lantern, nor keep from guttering when the oil ran out. As a 

Other changelings point the Elementals in a direction marble sculpture, you were unbreakable and alluring but im-
and watch the fireworks. The results may be unpredict- mobile and exposed, put on display for gawking fae creatures 
able, but something will definitely happen. Even the gentler with no respite for privacy. As a stiff breeze, you soared above 
Sprites display the seeming’s characteristic relentlessness, the earth and touched everything with unseen fingers, but 
though they may wear down obstacles little by little rather your Keeper breathed you in and kept you locked away inside 
than tearing them apart all at once. They do more than they her until she needed you to fill the sails of her ship. You could 
think, and shun being anything but themselves. Elementals be what you were only how and when the Gentry allowed it.

Would you ask the rain to apologize  
for wetting you while it slakes your thirst?



When your desperation reached its peak, you re- Curse: In addition to your character’s other breaking 
membered a time before your servitude, when the force points, he risks Clarity damage with a dice pool equal to 
of your own will meant something. You erupted from half his Wyrd (rounded up) whenever someone browbeats, 
your glass cage and reveled in your fearless conflagration, coerces, or forces him to act against his will.
blazing a trail back through the Hedge. You tore yourself Regalia: Sword
free from your pedestal and fled, untouched 
by thorns sharp enough to rend flesh. Tales
You gusted forth until you capsized the 
boat and formed a great tornado to His flower shop is the neighborhood’s 
tear all the barriers between you pride and joy, and his garden grows fresher 
and home to pieces. produce than any farmer’s market. Kids dare 

each other to sneak into his private greenhouse 
Now at night, but none has ever successfully stolen 

a glance at his secret crop. Every October, 
The only purpose that he takes a long trip to meet with unknown 

matters is the one you give associates, and tells no one where he 
yourself, and the only limita- goes. But the kids say that right before he 
tions you tolerate are those leaves, they can swear they hear tiny 
you decide are worth accept- voices in the greenhouse pleading for 
ing. Everywhere you go, mind- help. They don’t sound human.
less fragments of your gestalt She’s not the sharpest tool in the 
await your bidding, and you are shed, but she used to be. She remem-
only too glad to oblige. You take bers a time when everyone would 
every opportunity to unleash come to her for advice. Now she’s 
everything you have, because constantly distracted by the 
that’s when you feel the most like whispering of the grass and the 
you. And the world is filled with call of the fields, and she hates 
you — the wide, wild ocean and the birds. The smallest threat to her 
rivers that sustain life itself, or the friends or her home swiftly learns 
endless sands that fill the deserts the meaning of true terror. She insists 
and the sunny beaches human- on returning to the Hedge to find her 
ity adores, are under your power. lost Icon, and nothing her motley 
You wield them as your heart de- says can convince her to stay away. 
mands, because planning just gets She’s certain that if she can get it 
in the way, and nature acts as it back, she’ll be able to think straight 
will. Your friends know that when again. Then maybe she can help her 
danger calls for unrelenting persis- fellow Lost reclaim the bits they’re 
tence and maybe a lightning strike missing, too.
that shorts out a city block, you’re 
the one to call. He drives a white Cadillac 

and keeps people at arm’s length. 
Nicknames: Sprites, Tor- He seeks out the deluded, the 

rents, the Unbound deceived, and the gullible to ex-
Blessing: Gain an addi- pose the harsh truth to them in 

tional dot of one Resistance no uncertain terms. He opens 
Attribute at character cre- their eyes to the cruelty of those 
ation. As long as your char- who fooled them and gives them 
acter touches or is surrounded what they need to reinvent their 
by his element, he may use it to lives as they see fit. He takes none 
take mundane actions at a dis- into his confidence unless they 
tance of up to three yards (me- first melt his frozen heart with acts 
ters) away; these actions use his of true kindness or friendship. To 
usual traits. This includes unarmed his enemies he is the winter wind, 
attacks, but not attacks with weapons. cutting them down with honesty as 
This ability costs a point of Glamour per action if he has sharp as icicles, but his allies see the side of him that walks 
fewer than half his maximum Willpower points remaining. gently enough to leave no footprints in the radiant snow.

Elemental 27



A TALE OF PERFECTION
You fall to your knees and swear you’ll die for her. She Nobody sees the hard work the Fairest puts in to live 

tells you to rise and asks, what good would your death do? as a person instead of a figurehead. She endures enormous 
No, she says, walk by my side, and together we’ll take down pressure and lives up to impossible expectations every day, 
the bastards who would have us kneel. and does it happily, because by shattering them beyond 

Once upon a time, an empress reigned, beloved by ev- anyone’s wildest dreams she proves she’s worth so much 
eryone. She was the most beautiful of all the land’s people, more than they think. She isn’t the picture they paint in 
the most perfect of form. Each day, her tailors fashioned a their minds of who she is, and she isn’t a frame for them to 
new outfit for her to wear, each more lovely and extrava- hang their trappings on, and she doesn’t care if they don’t 
gant than the last. And each day, her tailors paraded her like it. Meaningless niceties are sometimes necessary, but 
through the city to show off their work. See how the ele- she prefers “kind” to “polite” — for those who deserve it. 
gant line of her leg enhances the cut of this exquisite dress! But she loves her many assets, too, and wouldn’t give them 
See how her peerless poise keeps the birds in this crown up for the world. She’s earned them and she uses them to 
from flying away! Her heart was hollow. Despairing, she get what she wants, and to hell with those who resent her 
tore the clothes from her body and let the horses of her for it. In her heart of hearts, she clings to them because 
parade chariot trample them in the dust. She strode the they remind her of what was intoxicating about Arcadia. 
streets naked, and filled her heart with the satisfaction she She desperately wishes she could go back and rule there, 
felt at the shocked stares of the people, who truly loved in truth — claim the magic and pleasures of Faerie for 
her clothes more than they loved her. With that, she com- herself, and banish its cruelties forever. Since she can’t, 
manded them to step aside and took her rightful place at she makes her own paradise wherever she goes, and woe 
the head of the courts of the Lost. to anyone who gets in her way.

The Fairest is adored, whether she wants to be or not. 
She possesses all the things everyone wants: looks, talent, Once
money, friends. She speaks and the world listens. She leads Your Keeper pampered and cherished you, even idol-
the charge and others follow. A gentle touch, a lingering ized you. You were the perfect companion, comely and 
glance, one compassionate word — these hold all the pow- silent, encased in a skin that had a mouth only when he 
er she needs to lend strength to the doubting and win over kissed you. He called you “light of my life,” and lavished 
the reticent. None can stand against her judgments, wheth- jewels and gifts upon you as though they would stand in 
er she passes them down from an executive’s chair or spits for friends.
them across a barricade at those who would take away her You were a ballerina, all elegance and grace. You 
people’s freedoms. She meets opposition with sangfroid and danced when he wound the music box and posed, mo-
support with warmth. If she’s imperious, it’s only because tionless, when the song ended. Lords and ladies journeyed 
she refuses to be put in her place. And if she pries, it’s only from all over to ooh and ahh over the marvelous dancer. 
because she’s had enough of small talk to last a lifetime. How fortunate, they said, that your Keeper found such a 

While the Wizened maintain a freehold’s complex rare talent! How noble of him to share his toy with them!
etiquette and operations, the Fairest hold their fellows You traveled far and wide, speaking your master’s will 
together with inspiration and bold decisions. When their to every ear. You rode the finest horse and carried the most 
companions falter, crushed under the weight of their or- splendid banner, and all envied your lofty position at the 
deals, they can rely on their Muses to pick their spirits up queen’s right hand. She entrusted you, her fair champion, 
again. Even when someone else wears the crown, a Fairest with her most important quests. You slew dragons, rescued 
is always there at the center of attention, swaying hearts enchanted princes, and led her armies. You ensured they 
and minds. Others may envy them, but the Sovereign would cheer your queen’s name with your deeds. And every 
bear the burden of leadership because to do otherwise is morning, you woke and remembered nothing.
to cheapen themselves.

“Bitch,” is it?  
That’s Queen Bitch to you, darling.



Whatever the case, you were a novelty, a plaything. Curse: In addition to your character’s other breaking 
You were beautiful and noble, expendable and empty. points, she risks Clarity damage with a dice pool equal to 
You existed to glorify your Keeper, nothing more. No one half her Wyrd (rounded up) whenever her action — or 
knew you for who you were, if you even were anyone any- inaction — leads directly to misfortune for her allies.
more. When you finally had enough, you chose someone Regalia: Crown
to be and turned all your wondrous talents to coercing 
your way back through the Hedge. Tales
Now She hates ballet. All its rules, its strict 

positions. All the pain and suffering it takes 
You glorify yourself, because to be the best. No, the dance she loves comes 

no one will do it for you. You show straight from the heart and pumps the soul 
people the real you at every oppor- out through its steps for everyone to see. 
tunity, and you bring out their real She gives free classes on street corners, 
selves, too. You already have their teaching freestyle hip-hop to kids who 
love, but you crave their respect, don’t have the money or the support to 
and you know the best way to learn from a school. The smiles on their 
get it is to share a true con- faces as they express themselves to the 
nection that trivialities can’t fullest — and the Glamour she earns 
break. Despite all your charms, from them — are payment enough.
it isn’t easy — even your fellow He’s charming, and he knows 
changelings find you intimidat- it. He wears tailored suits, just the 
ing, or stare at you in awe, or let right amount of cologne, and 
their jealousy consume them. But a grin that turns on men and 
you know how to kill them with women everywhere. He loves 
kindness, and you make yourself to talk, and he loves to listen, 
the only one who can give them and the stories he likes best are 
what they want. You’re the guid- about all the things people de-
ing light in a sea of uncertainty, sire. In his benevolence, he gives 
the grandeur of Arcadia come them what they want, and all 
to Earth in the flesh. Your he wants in return is a com-
friends know that when they panion for a while. Of course, 
tire from their labors or lose desires change day to day, but 
hope from their traumas, you’ll he’s a resourceful guy. He doesn’t 
be there with words to inspire mind repeat business, not at all. 
and a plan to win. He doesn’t like to be alone.

Nicknames: Muses, the You have to look out for your-
Sovereign, Unicorns self in this world. That’s what she 

Blessing: Gain an addi- learned from Faerie, and she 
tional dot of one Power Attri- never lets anyone forget it. She 
bute at character creation. You hears the names they call her be-
may spend Willpower points hind her back, but who cares what 
on another character’s be- they think? They say “iron fist,” 
half for purposes of the usual but she prefers “strong hand.” 
three-die bonus or +2 Resis- Who else could keep the howl-
tance trait increase. You may ing wolves at bay when other 
still only spend one Willpower freeholds turn a gluttonous 
point per action. This ability eye their way? Who else could 
costs a point of Glamour if any command the respect of the 
Condition is in play that would hobgoblin hordes? No one, that’s 
cause contention or mistrust be- who. She’ll never let anyone take her 
tween the characters, such as Leveraged throne. And if she has to go so far as to win 
or Notoriety. the heart of a Huntsman to prove her point, she will.

Fairest 29



A TALE OF BRUTALITY
His breath stinks like stale tobacco and his chainsaw his hands, the Bruiser always volunteers first, figuring his 

voice spews obscenities about your mother. The tough guy are already stained so he might as well do some good with 
thing wasn’t an act after all, so you lost that bet. And a tooth them. Why doom someone else to become a monster when 
besides. The question now is, what could you possibly have it’s already his job to be one? Others may dismiss them as 
that he’d want in exchange for leaving the rest of them where brutish and slow, but the Ogres keep it simple because to do 
they are? otherwise is to drown in remorse.

Once upon a time, a warrior set out to rid his land The Gargoyles’ greatest shame is that they weren’t 
of monsters. He carried a weighty hammer, with which he strong enough to fight back when the Gentry took them 
crushed skulls and pounded bones to dust. Up and down and forced them to commit atrocities. Now that they are 
the countryside he roamed, leaving behind him an ever- strong, they refuse to allow anyone to best them again. Liv-
growing pile of hideous, broken creatures. When his task ing this way is lonely, though, and letting others get close 
was finished, he turned to discover the dead were not mon- is hard. Their figurative — or literal — hammers are so big 
sters after all but ordinary folk, and he was the brute they and easy to swing that all problems look like nails. With so 
had feared. His heart was black. Despairing, he sought a much overwhelming force, it seems ludicrous to hold back 
Faerie’s counsel, but she laughed at his anguish and told in the face of ills that need obliterating. But that slope is 
him she had drawn the lie over his eyes, seeking to spare slick with the blood of the Ogre’s many unfortunate vic-
him the disgrace of being a terrible ugly thing. He knew tims, and he must fight to keep from tumbling back down 
then the world held no solace for him, so he tore the Fa- there, even when the excuse to revel in mindless intimida-
erie’s head from her body and cleansed his heart with her tion and violence is tempting.
blood. With that, he vowed never again to let pretty words 
cloud his mind, and lent his strength to the courts of the Once
Lost. You were no knight in shining armor, no dutiful soldier 

The Ogre knows what a fine line separates a hero from marching under a banner. No, you were a brutal destroy-
a bully, and how hard it is to walk it. But walk it he does, er — a thug without mercy. You endured by dishing out 
with the resolve to overcome any temptation. Fancy lies more pain than you received, and you fed on the terror you 
and careful words seem a waste, and he gives no quarter inspired. You were your Keeper’s prized torturer, teaching 
to such weak tactics. Ugly and imposing even behind the her enemies cruel lessons in obedience and keeping other 
Mask, he walks among mortals like a grizzly in human changelings in line when they rebelled. You were a gladia-
clothes and refuses to acknowledge the stares. In his sturdy tor slave, whipped if you didn’t defeat the other slaves in an 
arms and fearsome glare he possesses the might to crush arena filled with jeering Fae. Even when you killed the oth-
or cow the fiercest foes. If he speaks too bluntly, it’s only ers to free them from this hell, or let them do the same to 
because he has no patience for tiptoeing around the truth. you, you all returned to life the next day to start again. The 
And if he shuts people out, it’s only because he doesn’t want Gentry transformed you into a hideous, deformed creature 
to be hurt again. with a taste for flesh and took the gift of speech from you, 

Other changelings agree that when shit hits the fan, leaving you hungry and unable to communicate out in the 
behind an Ogre is the best place to stand. They’re the wilderness. Huge and menacing, without words to civilize 
freehold’s stalwart defenders and the motley’s loyal muscle. your desperate cravings, you had no choice but to terrorize 
Sick of having to say they’re sorry, they’re careful not to and prey upon the land’s people.
do anything they’ll feel obliged to apologize for. No more One day, you took a long, hard look at yourself and 
regrets, no more compromise. When they smash and maim, couldn’t go on like that. Maybe it was that last scream that 
it’s because someone deserved it. They protect their com- did it, reminding you of someone you lost in another life. 
panions from themselves, too — if someone has to bloody Maybe it was the empty look in the eyes of the last man you 

Get out of my face while you still can.  
I don’t do that anymore. Not for the likes of you.



tormented, or the way the last youth you devoured tasted Tales
salty like tears. You turned your unholy strength to break-
ing your chains and bringing your Keeper’s home crumbling He drinks too much, bathes too little, and his landlady 
down around her ears. You made a run for it, pulping the has his late rent excuses memorized by now. Can he help it if 
flesh of any hobgoblin lackey that got orphans, runaways, and Arcadia survivors aren’t 
in your way. You didn’t bother with exactly rolling in cash? They end up 
playing by the Hedge’s rules, tear- in better places than where they 
ing brambles apart with your bare started, though, and that’s what 
hands until you stood once more in matters. One of these days, he’ll tip 
the world you called home. off the wrong hobgoblin, with all his 

stomping around the Hedge look-
Now ing for desperate changelings or fae-

touched trying to escape. His Keeper 
You can’t erase what you did will come for him, and then things 

in Arcadia, but you can make will get really ugly. Until then, he’ll 
up for it. You look out for your keep at it. Deep down he suspects 
fellow Lost and butcher any- all the people he’s helped will stand 
thing that comes for them, whether by him when his own trouble comes 
it’s hounds and Huntsmen or confu- around. The thought keeps him 
sion and temptation. What beauty from feeling too alone.
you saw in Faerie was tainted by a 
blood-red haze, so you try to preserve She never tells anyone what 
the simple pleasures you find here be- she likes best about her job — never 
fore they suffer the same fate. When admits that being allowed to break 
Gordian knots set the courts to down doors and storm drug dens on 
squabbling, you’re the one willing to the clock is why she joined the FBI, 
slice the whole thing in half and call and it has nothing to do with high-
it done. You erect walls around your minded ideals like justice or public 
heart, but the precious few who get service. She likes shouting in crooks’ 
to know the real you never regret it. faces and watching them flinch. She 
Your friends know that you’re more likes it when they run, because she 
than a scarred face and a heart of enjoys tackling them to the ground 
gold: You’re also the one they can and beating them into submission. 
count on to do the right thing, Her motley says it’s a good thing 
even when it happens to be the she’s found an outlet, but to be 
hardest thing. careful before someone starts to 

wonder why she’s so good at pro-
Nicknames: Bruisers, filing serial killers and terrorists.

Gargoyles, the Terrible
He wonders how different 

Blessing: Gain an ad- his life now is from before. At 
ditional dot of one Power At- least now he’s salaried, that’s 
tribute at character creation. something. The Spring Queen 
Whenever your character deals insists she’s doing what she must 
any damage to another, you for the greater good, but as far as he 
may impose the Beaten Down can see she’s no different from any 
Tilt, which lasts for three crime lord. The people he intimi-
turns. This ability costs a point dates into paying her tithes and fe-
of Glamour if the Ogre makes alty probably believe he’d really 
the attack on his own behalf eat them if they didn’t comply. 
and not someone else’s. Who knows? If she ordered 

Curse: In addition to your char- it, maybe he would. He’s sup-
acter’s other breaking points, he risks Clarity dam- posed to indulge, after all. He’s not paid 
age with a dice pool equal to half his Wyrd (rounded up) to think, he’s paid to break bones and make examples. Still, 
whenever someone he doesn’t consider an enemy flees or shaking down unsuspecting humans because they didn’t real-
cowers from him. ize their urban development project encroached on a Hedge 

Regalia: Shield gateway seems a bit much. Maybe he should say something.

Ogre 31



A TALE OF CUNNING
She finishes your sentences, stealing the words right out human only to put her to work with meaningless chores? Ev-

of your mouth and transforming them into art on the page. ery Wizened asks herself this question countless times, shack-
By the time you hand over your cash, you’re dead certain this led to an anvil forging the links to her own chains or dutifully 
was all your own idea. crafting gifts for Goblin Queens who burn them immediately. 

Once upon a time, a clockmaker toiled for a hundred Is it malice that drives her Keeper to change the rules of her 
days and a hundred nights to perfect the ultimate timepiece, a slavery every time she thinks she’s almost completed her task, 
pocketwatch that kept the hours so accurately, it could speak or some perverse jest? Her escape is fraught with mazes and 
what was about to happen precisely a minute before. When trickery, forcing her to bend her mind in irrational ways to 
the work was done, she came blinking into the sunlight to out-think a logic that never made sense in the first place. By 
share her masterpiece with the world, only to find that time the time she’s free, she’s vowed never to let anyone take ad-
had no meaning here, and all her toil was for naught. Her vantage of her again. She puts her constructive talents to use 
heart was broken. Despairing, she pried open the watch’s for herself, or for a cause, and all she has to protect herself are 
casing and scattered its pieces on the cobblestones. Only af- deft hands, a quick wit, and a cunning mind. Refusing to take 
terward did she realize she could use those pieces to repair her seriously or dismissing her work’s worth is a good way to 
her broken heart, and thereafter her thoughts were always shake her confidence — or earn her spite.
precisely a minute ahead. With that, she out-schemed her 
wicked Keepers and pledged her nimble fingers in service to Once
the courts of the Lost. Promises are worth less than nothing without a contract 

The Wizened is happiest when she’s busy. When her to back them up. You know, because you heard so many and 
hands and mind are idle, she can’t help feeling like she ought every one of them was a lie. “Of course you can go home, if 
to be doing something. She keeps her wits about her in a you build one toy for each good little moppet on Earth. ‘Tis 
crisis and pulls miraculous solutions out of the most vexing child’s play, for one with your skill!” “I’ll set you free as soon 
problems. If she chatters or complains, it’s only because she’s as the war is over, my dear, but I so desperately need you to 
glad of the company while she works. And if she gives a little bring all my dead soldiers back to life each morning.” “Be my 
too much advice, it’s only because she’s been there and done lady-in-waiting for a hundred and one years, just that! and 
that, she made the t-shirt, and she doesn’t like to see the soon you’ll be on your way.”
same mistake made twice. You worked your fingers to the bone, hunched over your 

Clever and industrious, the Wizened are the other half workbench or running yourself ragged in the fields, day in 
of the glue that holds the freehold together, pairing helpful and day out. All that, for a glimmer of hope — surely this 
manipulation and a delicate touch with the Fairest’s over- time your Keeper would cleave to his word. He never did. For 
whelming force of personality. Their pragmatic approach all his insistence that he took you for your unique talents, for 
sometimes misses the forest for the trees, but no one can all his hollow praise, as soon as the job was done he laughed 
beat the Wizened in sheer accomplishment. They work for in your face. Or he scolded you, inventing faults where none 
fun, they scheme in their sleep, and they refuse to allow a existed; wheedled and flattered, passing you along to the 
problem to go unsolved or a hole unfilled. Others may call next master like some prodigy apprentice; or even released 
them overachievers, but the Hatters build and plan because you, on the face of it, only to reveal in the end that you’d 
to do otherwise is to feel helpless. never left Faerie at all. You drove yourself to distraction 

The Gentry reshape palaces and gardens according to learning impossible crafts and following endless convoluted 
their whims, lifting nary a finger. They pluck trinkets from rules, but inevitably the bastard manipulated you into sabo-
mortal dreams to adorn their shelves and brows. They want taging yourself over and over. In the end, you beat him at his 
for nothing. To what end, then, does a True Fae steal away a own game, poisoning yourself at guile’s teat in the process.

Huff and puff all you want,  
you’ll never blow this house down.



Now Tales
You’re Wizened because you have a way about you that With her fae tools, she roams the Hedge’s winding 

reminds the others of a withered old seamstress: nose to the paths, seeking the seeds of compelling dreams and redesign-
grindstone, with a jaded air and a half-empty glass. But for ing them to her own specifications. For those who dream in 
all your talk, you still mix ethereal colors into your palette fear or sorrow, she builds fantastical landscapes and adven-
and build wonders that dazzle even your fellow Lost. Though tures under a shining sun. For those who dream of crushing 
you’ve tried to bury that spark of mad inspiration, fearing the weak and innocent beneath their heels, she builds devi-
eternal disappointment, it pulses in your heart and betrays ous labyrinths and cruel games the dreamers 
your hard-boiled manner in the marvel- can never win. The Dream Engineer hands 
ous things you make. You bring a little out her business card to all the nearby free-
piece of Arcadia into the world every holds. They keep it handy and hire her 
time you cook up something new, on commission to craft nightmares for 
and you hope the roses you grow their enemies or reveries of loves past 
won’t bring fae thorns along with for themselves.
them. Your canny — and uncanny He hides behind his online han-
— mind works overtime to keep the dle and never lets anyone see his face. 
freehold running smoothly and your With careful research, blatant hack-
motley’s pockets full. Your friends admire ing, and a little social-media stalking, 
your creations and put them to good use, he tracks down fetches and docu-
but they know you’re not just making ments their every move. He drops 
gadgets. You’re building a better world. anonymous tips to changelings 

Nicknames: Domovye (singu- seeking their false selves and plays 
lar: Domovoi), Hatters, the Shrewd cryptic benefactor with the un-

Blessing: Gain an additional knowing scarecrows, sending them 
dot of one Finesse Attribute at on wild goose chases to maneuver 
character creation. Your charac- them into their changeling doubles’ 
ter can take a Build Equipment paths. His paranoia drives him to 
action (p. 196) to transform one collect dirt on everyone else, too, 
kind of material into another, as to keep them from tracking him 
long as she has the appropriate down in kind and exposing his 
tools to work with what she has. operation to the world.
For instance, she could spin straw She tends bar at a little 
into gold with a spinning wheel, place downtown they call the 
or forge steel into diamond with Spinning Jenny, on the cor-
an anvil and hammer. This ner of 3rd and Main. Every-
counts as a five-die bonus for body knows to drink there if 
purposes of determining the they’re desperate, if they need 
required successes. This ability something they can’t get any-
costs a point of Glamour per ac- where else. She listens to their 
tion if she’s jury-rigging, but in this problems and sometimes, when 
case she can improvise her tools as the hour is right, she makes an 
well; she might spin straw into gold offer. She can help, she says, for 
by running it around a ceiling fan, or a price. No, she doesn’t want 
forge steel into diamond by running money. Nothing so crass. Just 
over it with a car. a trifle, something meaningful 

Curse: In addition to your but small, you’ll never even miss 
character’s other breaking points, it. She performs miracles and 
she risks Clarity damage with a collects their keepsakes, singing 
dice pool equal to half her Wyrd as they are with memories ten-
(rounded up) whenever an un- der and sad. It’s only after her 
pleasant surprise takes her off- customers leave that they realize 
guard. — they never caught her name.

Regalia: Jewels

Wizened 33



Courts
Faerie was a nightmare from which we longed to wake, but the fantasia followed us home. Around 

every corner stalks a foe intent on dragging us back, a reminder that this world kept no place for us while 
we were gone, or a handful of magic that invites us to miss the wonder we left behind. Alone, we falter. We 
wander Lost from refuge to refuge and seek belonging. Safety. Solace. Fleeting wishes, when every raven and 
rainstorm could carry a Fair One along.

In their desperation, those who came before us struck deals with the sun and the moon — with the 
turning of the Earth itself. Protect us, they said, and we will honor you. Each of the oathbound gathered 
others of like mind, forming a court to keep the Gentry at bay. They found comfort in the seasons’ arms, 
taking their lessons to heart, and so do we. Desire staves off the horror that haunts us in sleep. Wrath 
channels our passions and puts idle hands to glorious purpose. Fear empowers us to arm ourselves with the 
very weapons we fled. Sorrow keeps us from returning to paths best left untrod.

Together, we do more than endure. We fight back, each courtier in her own way.

34 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



THE ANTLER CROWN, THE EMERALD COURT, 
THE COURT OF DESIRE

A crystalline sweat beaded its carved brow, and its Adon- break us. We’ll live and love and enjoy ourselves and forget 
is-like smile splintered apart as she danced on. “This is not pos- you ever existed. 
sible,” it said, more like a cough. “This is not your master’s That last part is a lie, of course. But it’s a lie with power. 
music. That is not the gown your master dressed you in. How If you seed the mortal world with pleasure, that dulls the 
dare you laugh and sing and dance without me?” siren song of Faerie. Your fellow Lost dream fewer dreams of 

A mortal might have identified the fear trilling deep with- return if there’s so much for them here. What’s more, the 
in her eyes, but her smile was perfect brilliance, and solipsistic Others can’t understand how their for-
the Huntsman wearing the Lover in Dia- mer pets can live without them. When 
monds’ face quailed from it. “I’m deeply they peer through a windowpane and 
sorry,” she said. “Do I know you?” see a room of Lost dancing and sing-

ing and making love as if nothing 
Desire had happened, it confuses them. 

Desire is a flame. It’s the They doubt their own senses. Of 
fuel in the engine of ambi- all the ways to keep the Gen-
tion. It’s the warm rich red of try at arm’s length, the Spring 
passion and the pale insistent Court’s way is likely the most 
blue of hunger. It’s a will-o-wisp enjoyable — but it does require 
dancing just out of reach, lead- a hell of a poker face.
ing the foolish to bad ends. You Spring is the enthusiastic 
can’t live without its warmth and patron of the Court of Desire. 
heat, but feed it too much and it’ll Spring is the transition from cold 
burn you to ashes. torpor to heat and light, the stirring 

The other courts don’t understand, of roots in warming earth. It’s a season 
of course. They reject the philosophy of de- for sex, as many human cultures recognize, 
sire. They may call it selfish, or shortsighted, or shal- but that’s an outgrowth of Spring’s role as the 
low. Why spend your time chasing pleasures, they may say, season of birth, when the world is turning greener and 
with the Others scratching at the threshold? Why don’t you better able to nourish mothers and their newborns. The 
understand what’s important? Spring Court often claims to have been the first Seasonal 

Court to form — while Winter was still in hiding, Autumn 
Those are foolish questions. The Spring Court knows was still drawing up wards, and Summer was still daring 

exactly what’s important. Passion feeds ambition and art. hunters to chase it, Spring was receiving callers to see just 
Hunger is an understanding of your needs. But most impor- what they wanted.
tant, desire is the food of life. With laughter and joy and 
pleasure, changelings live — without these things, they sim- Desire may be the most pleasant harvesting, when com-
ply survive. Desire is the key to taking your life back or build- pared to wrath and fear and sorrow. But it’s not always a mat-
ing a new, full life. It’s an alluring philosophy, and it draws ter of nourishing indulgence. Desire is one part passion, one 
many Lost who don’t want to dwell on the past. And with part hunger. It can be a bitter dram of envy, a metallic tang 
the Bargain, it even refutes the power of the Gentry. Fuck of covetousness, or the overripe, perfumed bouquet of raw 
you, it says, we don’t need you. You didn’t break us. You can’t lust. A Spring Courtier might visit a strip club for a hit of 

raw sexual desire, or attend a social mixer for a more refined 

Anything that’s flawless is false. We are beautiful, my dears,  
not because we have no scars. We are beautiful because  

we refuse to be defined by them.



brew. But she can also find a poignant longing in an office because that’s what it takes to reject Arcadia and find your 
building around five, when the workers who can’t leave yet way through the Thorns. And yet, the nature of their Bar-
desperately wish they could. A pet supply store’s adoption gain encourages them to look away.
event is filled with the animals’ longing for security and be- The temptation of Spring is to draw power from what 
longing, reflected by human — especially children’s — de- you want — which makes it all the harder to deal with what 
sire to absorb and return a small animal’s love. Even a busy you don’t want. Pain, fear, rejection, loss...to most people, 
restaurant has strands of wishful thinking from diners who these things are the opposite of desires. The Antler Crown is 
would like to indulge more. absolutely strongest in times of beauty and prosperity, when 

Courtiers of the Antler Crown are especially aware of everyone around them is either achieving their desires, or 
the reliance on mortal emotion. Many wish they could draw even better, has the hope that the realization of their ambi-
Glamour from the desires of their fellow Lost, particularly tions is juuust around the corner. Conversely, Spring is weak-
their lovers…and the Spring Court is not at all shy about est in ugly times when hope is dim. Emerald Courtiers gradu-
encouraging romantic and not-so-romantic entanglements ally learn that it’s to their advantage to tell people “don’t 
with other changelings. The mutual attainment of desire worry about that for now.” And to some extent, to not worry 
is a powerful tool for healing. It’s also a fine way to deepen about that for now themselves.
bonds — if the Emerald Courtier is all that interested in That’s the bitterness that balances out the sweet. Other 
deep bonds, that is. Lost may admire and covet Emerald Courtiers for their pas-

D sion and enthusiasm…and at the same time, hold them in 
enial some contempt. If you’re in real trouble, your Spring Court 
It’s a simple stereotype: The Emerald Court is full of lover might be the last person you turn to, because she’s the 

hedonistic, escapist lotus-eaters who refuse to look at any- most likely to change the subject. They aren’t often seen as 
thing unpleasant, or even admit it exists. As a simple ste- reliable, and that can hurt.
reotype, it is of course flawed and inaccurate. But it’s not Even so, the disapproval of one’s peers is not the worst 
entirely wrong. Most Spring Courtiers are clever enough to problem with denial, not when one considers the Fae. Their 
take the long view and disciplined enough to make sacrifices, mastery of desire makes Spring the best-suited of any court 

36 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



to see through the beautiful glamours and temptations of the to the physical needs of their fellow Lost. Spring produces 
Gentry — but their penchant for denial leaves them vulner- quality horticulturists and gardeners, who may have a knack 
able against enemies who use more brutish tools and tactics. for goblin fruits as well as more mundane crops. Some take 

to healing, be it physical medicine or emotional therapy. At 
The Turning of least one Spring Courtier in every freehold volunteers as a 

the Seasons master of ceremonies and ritualist to help the other courts 
run their celebrations smoothly. 

High Spring: The Emerald Court takes power with a 
revel. The rise of a new Spring monarch requires celebration, Give and Take
for reasons far deeper (and more contractual) than a show of 

When Spring reigns, it compels an odd, partial peace. 
pride. This first lavish event sets the stage for a Spring reign, 

The Gentry and their loyalists cannot do violence to a free-
as a promise of many more. Some Emerald monarchs hold 

hold where a Spring monarch rules, unless that violence is 
grand parties as shows of power, demonstrations of their in-

born of heart’s desire. Lesser urges cannot negate the geas. It 
fluence, and public displays of courage — Winter is over and 

halts a traitor attempting to line his pockets, even if he “de-
done, and the freehold can fly their banners in pride without 

sires wealth.” It stays a raging Huntsman, even if one might 
fear of being seen. Others think in terms of freehold morale. 

call her wrath “a desire for vengeance.” To pierce Spring’s 
A populace that allows itself to be happy together will be 

Bargain, one must truly covet one’s target…such as a Keeper 
stronger when the hard times come again. 

coming to reclaim its absolute very favorite, the one who got 
Spring monarchs lead by example. They live extrava- away. The Court of Desire encourages all of its members to 

gantly, succulently, to entice other Lost to do the same. It be very honest about their relationships with their former 
certainly helps that they’re feeding their own desires in the Keeper and fellow servants, in order to keep track of who will 
process. Of course, not all changelings look at these glorious be the greatest potential threat year round. 
excesses with admiration. A Spring monarch can easily ac-

In true Emerald Court fashion, Spring’s Lost try not to 
quire a reputation for useless decadence more than anything 

think about the ramifications of the Bargain too much. If 
else. In some cases, it’s accurate. But other Spring monarchs 

Spring will permit violence meted out in the name of true 
know the value of skill of arms, occult learning, or a strong 

desire, then does that mean their patron is more sympathetic 
information network. These wiser rulers are generous with 

to certain True Fae than to the changelings they harm? 
their favors and privileges in order to win the goodwill, loy-
alty, and sometimes love of the other courts. It’s not too dif- The Court of Desire has near-innumerable rituals, cel-
ficult to tell the lackadaisical epicures from the dedicated ebrations, and obligations to perpetuate its Bargain. Other 
leaders. A freehold quickly learns if their Antler Crown’s courts regard the Emerald Court’s obsession with festivals 
tines are blunted or razor sharp. and balls as a dereliction of responsibility. Quite the con-

trary: Spring requires celebration. It begins each year with 
Low Spring: It’s fair to say that freeholds of the Season-

the Spring Revel held when Winter cedes power to Spring. 
al Courts need all four courts to run properly. But the Spring 

At this bonfire-lit event, the court does its best to ensure 
Court is necessary to the other three in ways that are hard to 

that each guest has some desire of theirs met before the 
equal. The Court of Desire is, among other things, a support 

revel ends. Another common celebration is the Homecom-
group for all the Lost who need one. You need the Winter 

ing. This event is much more like a birthday party than the 
Court to gather intelligence, the Autumn Court to cast the 

“homecoming” parties held by schools or sports teams. It 
magics, and the Summer Court to lead the fight — but you 

celebrates the date that a changeling returned to the mortal 
need the Spring Court to live in between all that. When the 

world from Arcadia. Each year a Homecoming for the Spring 
Courts tell newcomers what they have to offer, the Antler 

monarch is most likely, but the court is glad to honor others, 
Crown stresses healing and camaraderie. We want you to be 

particularly the strongest and most delectable potential allies 
happy and healthy. You deserve that. 

from Summer, Autumn, or Winter.
Some praise the Spring Court for being supportive of 

The court is also bound by one universal rule: Your De-
each other court in turn, lending their diplomatic skill to 

sires Are Your Own. This “Verdant Rule” has many interpre-
help smooth out conflicts. Others criticize the Court of 

tations and ramifications, but at its heart it is a meditation on 
Desire for petty politicking and ridiculous games of one-up-

responsibility. It reminds the Antler Crown to acknowledge 
manship. Both are right. The Emerald Court overflows with 

the desires of others without judgment, to recognize that de-
energy that doesn’t subside when they cede the throne to 

sire is a mirror of the self, and to make no apology for their 
Summer. They can pour that energy into productive tasks, 

own wants.
or they can vent it in potentially destructive intrigues if they 
don’t feel that they’re being properly appreciated. Mantle Effects: The Spring Mantle is warm and entic-

ing. It breathes renewal, redolent with scents such as new 
In times of Low Spring, the Antler Crown takes roles 

flowers, rain on earth, or the sun on the grass. The air moves 
that improve the freehold’s overall quality of life. Some tend 

around the Emerald Courtier — stagnation is the antithesis 

Spring 37



of Spring. The colors may change around her as well: Greens 	 That’s where Raven comes in. Raven had a cloak of 
become vibrant, warm colors become richer, or the lighting black feathers growing out of his back, a present from 
seems to take on the same cast as a morning sunbeam. At its his Keeper, that let him turn into whatever he wanted. 
most powerful, the Spring Mantle leaves the image of flowers He turned into a mosquito and slipped into Winter’s 
growing up in the changeling’s footprints. house. Then he turned into a handsome young man 

Courtiers: A beauty merchant sells mortals romance in and seduced Winter’s daughter. He persuaded her to 
the form of haunting perfumes and exquisite jewels, taking get her father drunk, and while Winter was nodding 
their money but also their lust for status and respect. A white- off he set Spring free. She promised him anything he 
haired Beast with pearlescent antlers runs at the head of an wanted for a reward, and he asked to make a Bargain 
adoring motley. A Wizened storyteller loops heartbreaking with her. When Winter woke up three moons later, 
tales into visual novels sold to only a few. An erotic oneiro- he was so embarrassed he went looking to make a 
mancer crafts dream venues for his clients to safely explore Bargain, too.
desires that they could never voice aloud. A literal firebrand 
whips up crowds with promises of better days ahead. A thera- •	 Never let anyone tell you that beauty is mere vanity. 
pist becomes far too involved with her clients, soothing their If not for beauty, we would never have had the courts. 
wounds and exploring their wants in ways that would get her For the first of us all was a beautiful girl, a princess 
license revoked. An urban gardener establishes community before she was our queen. She and her sisters were 
gardens in low-income neighborhoods. A parole officer goes all shut away like songbirds, but their Keeper’s vizier 
the extra mile to help his charges rebuild their lives, and dis- loved her from the moment he first saw her. In time, 
creetly harvests a touch of their new hope. the vizier decided she would rather die at her Keeper’s 

hands than let the young captive languish a moment 

Legends more. So she taught the girl a charm of summoning, 
and then let her and her sisters free.

•	 Shed a tear for Mother Susan. When she wandered 	 The princess was brave, and she led her sisters home 
back out of the Hedge with thorn-cut feet, a young without using the charm. At last, she stood with one 
woman with no family to her name, there was noth- foot in the Hedge, and she invoked the summoning. 
ing she wanted more than a child. But the changes Spring came and appeared before her, beautiful as a 
in her flesh reached her womb as well, and no child god, and pledged to give her anything she wished. She 
could take root there. Many a Lost maiden has dis- saw the desire in his eyes, and said, “Give me a child.” 
covered the same…but Susan wouldn’t let her story Spring gladly complied, and to protect that child’s fu-
end there. She went back into the Hedge, again and ture he struck a Bargain. Clever as she was, the first 
again, and at last she walked back out with a swelling Spring Queen then went to her sisters, and taught 
belly and an oath sealed behind her heart. them each the charm in turn. They summoned Sum-

	 She wanted that child more than anything. And mer, and Autumn, and Winter, and I think you can 
then…she had no child, but she carried the Bargain guess the rest.	
of Spring. Nobody ever heard the tale of how she 
came from here to there, not from her own lips. But •	 All of the seasons are bound by powerful oaths, 
you already understand, don’t you? The child must same as the rest of us. Some of these oaths control 
have been the price she paid. She gave up the spring where they can and cannot govern — Winter has no 
of her own life so that Spring would bless all of us. power at the equator, for instance, and Spring and 
Honor Mother Susan, and weep for her, for that sacri- Autumn can hold court at once as long as they’re 
fice must have been fueled by immense compassion… both on opposite sides of the world. The Emerald 
or overpowering guilt. Court came about because one of us discovered one 

of Spring’s most pitiless fetters: Spring could not kill.
•	 Back in the day, the seasons didn’t play nice. They 	 When Spring came under attack, the First King of-

went to war with each other, trying to crowd each fered to stand in its defense. He fought against the 
other out. If Summer caught Autumn while Au- hounds of the dying year, nearly dying a hundred 
tumn was bathing and didn’t have any weapons times before Spring healed him anew. At the last, 
nearby, then Summer got to rule over the year for he made a final pact with Spring: He took Spring’s 
as long as he had his foot on Autumn’s neck. There name, and he went into battle one last time, and he 
was a year where there was nothing but Winter, died as Spring. But because he died as Spring, he 
because Winter had tied up Spring and was keep- could return. His eyes opened at the end of the next 
ing her in his house. He spent every day and every winter, and Spring welcomed him with the Bargain.
night watching the door, never letting anything 	 This story hides a secret, though: Now Spring can 
bigger than a bug across the threshold. kill again.

38 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



THE IRON SPEAR, THE CRIMSON COURT, 
THE COURT OF WRATH

The hunter chose the horned Beast in the hoodie first: There were other things that Summer had to offer, so 
a sharp kick to the virilities, and the bull-man was down. long ago. But the Bargain with Summer was paid in wrath. 
Next was the troll with long, Black Annis fingers: she was still It’s the oath of the blazing sun destroying shadows. It’s the 
gawking when the baseball bat smashed into her temple. But vigilance of the longest day. It’s the spike in violence when 
when the hunter rounded on the third member of the motley, the streets are baking and the AC is out. 
he realized he’d prioritized his prey all wrong. The waif held Anyone harboring illusions about “polite society” would 
a blade near-long as she was, a crimson cloth be deeply chagrined to find out just how easy it 
knotted around its guard, and its point was is to harvest wrath, especially in a large city. 
already at his throat. Sure, you can drink up the anger in 

“When I started sharpening this a Rust Belt diner full of frustrated, 
sword, ten years ago,” she whispered, still-unemployed workers or in a 
“it was a knife the size of my finger.” congregation listening to a fire-

and-brimstone preacher scream 
Wrath about how the sinners are ruin-

Wrath is rejection. ing the world. But the city’s full 
Wrath doesn’t accept that of people tightly packed…and 
things are the way they are, hell is other people. Long lines 
and there’s nothing to do at the bank or grocery store 
about it. When someone shoves vent clouds of succulent frustra-
a knife into you, wrath is the tion. Schoolyard bullies let out 
urge to pull that knife out and their anger on smaller children, 
stab right back. Let Spring and who in turn seethe for retribu-
Autumn and Winter all try to tion. Rush-hour traffic is practical-
avoid or mitigate their pain. Summer ly a five o’ clock dinner bell. Sporting 
channels wrath to scream through blood- matches are festivals of tribalized wrath, 
flecked lips, no more! particularly if it’s a contact sport. 

Nobody spends much time debating whether or not Talk to a Crimson Court aficionado, and they’ll tell 
they belong with the Iron Spear. Summer Courtiers are you Glamour harvested from wrath tastes like heat. Sullen, 
those who drew a line and chose to push back. Maybe it was suppressed anger has a low slow burn, and a berserk tantrum 
their own pain: loss, wounds, failure, humiliation. Maybe it is a peppery explosion. Truly righteous wrath has a cleansing, 
was someone else’s. But something awakened that fury in spicy heat that seeps into your lungs. Hatred and the lust for 
them, a wrath pure enough that they stopped thinking about vengeance add a metallic aftertaste. If you’re unlucky and 
flight and decided to fight. It’s not always healthy, of course. foolish enough to try drawing on the rage of something not 
Wrath doesn’t make you happy, even if it dulls the pain and human, like a werewolf, then it’s like drinking molten gold. 
gives you something else to think about. It might lead you But for all that, the Iron Spear teaches that you shouldn’t 
to sacrifice yourself for an empty promise of vengeance. But think of it in terms of consuming wrath entirely. You’re 
nothing gives a hunter pause like a beast that has decided it’s meant to just hold it for a while — to forge it and hone it and 
not going to be prey any more. give it a new target. A target that honestly deserves it.

 Fuck compromise. You know who wants you  
complacent and afraid? They do. They want you thinking  

you don’t want to fight back. No. Fuck that. You need to be angry. 
They earned your wrath.



Anger An ascendant Summer monarch tends to focus on of-
fense or defense. Defense involves activities such as gath-

When everything is going to shit, when you’re afraid ering useful tokens of war, setting watchers on potential 
for yourself and the people you care about, you get angry. Hedge points of entry, building up the armory, and ex-
You look for someone to blame, because that’s better than tracting pacts of alliance from whatever neighbors can be 
being impotent. You need a target. trusted to keep their word. Offense entails scouting mis-

The line between wrath and anger is a thread spun sions deeper into the Hedge, grand hunts of particularly 
from semantics. Summer philosophy holds that anger is dangerous hobgoblins, and moving on tempting targets of 
wrath with less discipline, less direction. Anger clouds your opportunity. More fetches die when the Summer Court is 
eyes. It drives you to strike, strike now, no matter what or in power than at any other time.
who you hit. Anger creeps up on you when you don’t have Low Summer: When another season holds power, the 
clarity of purpose. It makes you toxic — and worse, when Iron Spear insists on offering counsel. A Summer advisor 
the toxin runs its course, it leaves you weak and fatigued. stands as close to the throne as she can, fully armed. She 
Wrath is tiring, and anger doubly so. defers to the reigning monarch in most things, like a good 

That toxic nature spawns an ugly truth — many soldier, but always has an opinion when there’s a mention 
changelings fear Summer more than they fear Autumn. A of a Huntsman, or of the Gentry. 
Summer Courtier’s rage might be triggering in its familiar- High-ranking Summer Courtiers tend to split between 
ity. All the more reason to focus that wrath, say the elders looking inward and outward. Focusing inward is usually a 
of the Iron Spear. Wrath can deter the Gentry. Anger will matter of keeping the freehold defenses shored up. It’s com-
drive your loved ones from you — or worse, hurt them if mon practice to organize self-defense and physical training 
they don’t abandon you. for interested parties, even weapons training for both bal-

T listics and hand-to-hand combat. 
he Turning of Looking outward entails many things, small offen-

the Seasons sives against the Others in particular. A hunt during Low 
Summer might not be large and grandiose, but a few truly 

High Summer: Summer stands. When the Crimson dedicated Summer soldiers can do some real damage. In 
Court is in power, it marshals the freehold’s defense. A most freeholds, a Courtier of Wrath keeps something like 
Summer monarch doesn’t precisely militarize a freehold a bounty system running year round, making public the 
— though some would like to, or have tried. The Lost descriptions, last known whereabouts, and names (if avail-
are individuals, and a freehold’s populace is full of people able) of the freehold’s most dangerous known enemies. The 
who might man a barricade in a time of need, but have payments for a Summer bounty are as strange and tempting 
no interest in making discipline and chain of command as you might expect — cash is certainly possible, if gauche, 
the new normal. But the Iron Spear usually has to spend but the truly dangerous targets are worth weapons and to-
three seasons watching the other courts ignore martial kens and pledges.
concerns. A Spring monarch typically leaves the freehold 
in high spirits but inclining to complacency. When Sum- Lower-ranking Summer Courtiers find ways to serve 
mer takes power, it’s time to clean the guns and sharpen the freehold. Obviously, they provide the lion’s share of sol-
the blades. diers, sentinels, and constabulary. Standing guard isn’t a 

full-time job — most freeholds aren’t nearly large enough 
Kings and queens of Summer are exceptionally in- to support that — but the Iron Spear is there when needed. 

timidating creatures. If you want to avoid conflict, you join In most freeholds, the Summer recruitment pitch is based 
some other court where it’s okay to hide or talk your way on unity: Everyone does their part, but we’ll always have your 
out of trouble. Crimson Courtiers test each other all the back. It’s an attractive offer to Lost looking for a new place 
time, whether it’s sparring to blow off steam, settling who’s to belong and comrades they can trust, especially if they’re 
best with a sword or stick, or arguing over the best tac- all right with rolling up their sleeves. Some take well to 
tic for blasting out a warren of dangerous hobgoblins. The crafting, be it gunsmithing, archaic weapons and armor, or 
monarchs of Summer have to prove themselves constantly, restoring and improving vehicles. 
and it shows. A tower of steel-cable muscle and scars flex-
es a killing strength in each finger. An elegant diplomat The Iron Spear encourages a volunteer culture in 
with cold iron in his voice never asks for anything twice. times of Low Summer, even outside the prospect of the 
A plainly dressed woman seems smaller than she is until hunt. Keeping busy is a good way to maintain or further 
her thumb brushes up against the hilt of her blade, and the your court standing. In the absence of more organized ac-
smell of blood seems to surround her. A crooked man in tivities, Crimson Courtiers focus their energy into action 
sunset regalia proposes daring offensives backed by seem- —vigorous exercise, athletic competitions, martial train-
ingly uncountable layers of strategy. ing, Hedge raids, street races, poetry slams, all manner of 

pursuits. Wrath is a smoldering burden, and a responsible 

40 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



Summer Courtier (they’re not all responsible) needs to di-
rect all that furious energy into something productive. 

To be Summer Court is to remember the necessity of 
vigilance, year round. Most Crimson Courtiers understand 
joy, just not unfettered joy. They dance and sing and even 
laugh, sometimes, at the freehold’s celebrations, but the 
Iron Spear is the designated driver. At least one of them is 
always sober, eyes on the exits. 

Give and Take
The Bargain of Summer is very straightforward: 

Where a Summer monarch holds power, the Others and 
their vassals must fight to the last. This compulsion isn’t 
courage — indeed, a True Fae may be hollowed out by 
panic when it realizes that its enemies will not flee, and it 
cannot. It can only try to push forward, hoping that it’s as 
invincible as it believes itself. The Iron Spear takes clever 
advantage of the Bargain during a hunt. If they can find 
a weaker enemy party, all they have to do is force the 
enemy to draw weapons in self-defense. The rest is bloody 
formality. 

Summer also offers strength and focus. Strength is 
to be had in the Contracts of Summer — but focus is 
the philosophy antithetical to the Others, and therefore 
the first line of defense. The season guides its courtiers 
down a straightforward path, because straightforwardness 
is a weapon in its own right where the Fae are concerned. 
Gentry used to the perpetual twilight of their Arcadian 
realms falter when faced with changelings calling on the 
days at their longest and the sun at its zenith. Mercurial 
Fae, given to expect an echo of their fickleness, wither 
when confronted with the intense focus of the Iron Spear. 
Summer doesn’t equivocate or flee — an unthinkable 
character trait in the debauched Gentry so used to having 
others crumple before them. 

The Summer Court draws the most forthright Lost to 
its ranks. A faerie might find it easier to outwit a Summer 
soldier, but it might also think too many steps ahead. It 
can be very difficult for the solipsistic Gentry to anticipate 
the Summer Court by asking “What would I do?” The im-
mortal game players never wind up thinking in terms of 
“Stop fucking around and just hit them.”

In return for this strength and focus, Summer asks 
for blood sacrifice. Not of the B-movie, knives-and-altars 
human sacrifice variety, though — well, almost never — 
and not simply blood. The Crimson Court venerates their 
season with competition and physical mortification. They 
lead ritual hunts such as the Mir-Shikar, a grand hunt on 
the first day of summer targeting a foe or menace to the 
freehold. They hold tournaments of first-blood duels and 
cage fights, ranging from displays of meticulous dexterity 
and control to brutal punch-ups where the victor’s the one 
who can still stand up. Their parties are physical affairs 
where they leap bonfires, run across coals, and brand their 

Summer 41



skin; they stage eating competitions and sporting matches all-seeing “father” that had taken them. They were 
and mock battles. The court stokes the flames of Summer nearly to the mortal world when they heard a ter-
with aggression, and has many rituals to direct that ag- rible howl, far above. It was a wolf so immense it 
gression safely against their own. Mostly safely. Usually. chased the sun itself through the sky.

Mantle Effects: The Summer Mantle is strength and 	 The three leapt to the sun’s defense without a 
heat. It may pulse warmth like a heartbeat, with a faint thought. The youngest sister distracted the wolf 
smell of iron, or it may be a level, dry heat that seems to and led it a merry chase. The middle child ate a 
press the skin flat. A stronger Mantle may display heat great trough in the ground for the wolf to fall in, 
effects like a mirage’s shimmer or faint curls of steam. and the oldest son lifted a mountain to trap the 
Standing near a truly powerful Crimson Courtier is like wolf in the pit. The grateful sun revealed itself as 
standing near an open furnace door — every time they Highest Summer, and pledged its gratitude to the 
shift, it’s like an exhalation out of hell. three. Summer promised to teach the three’s de-

Courtiers: A betrayed mother swears vengeance for scendants and apprentices how to defend them-
every year of her children’s lives that she missed. An Ogre selves against the wolf — for sooner or later, the 
meditates on his sword, an instrument with no purpose but wolf will get free, and it will come looking for us.
to cut apart men and women. A rusalka armors herself in ice 
to keep her fury frozen in her heart. A spine-fingered guitar- •	 Don’t listen. It wasn’t a brawler, a biter, or a ber-
ist pours his rage into a ballad of loss and vindication. A serker who first tracked down Summer — it was 
ragged woman in a ragged coat visits the freehold every full a sharpshooter. A hunter. The other courts will 
moon, eating and drinking enough for any five people before tell you otherwise, fearing hunters as they do, but 
she wanders away again to resume her hunt. A soft-spoken, think: How could you track all the skies in a year 
gentle Fairest writes elaborate and ruthless battle strategies without patience? 
on delicate scrolls. A short-tempered bully picks fights at the 	 Summer had run for a month, and yet it looked 
drop of a hat, then offers to teach a few fighting and first-aid down and saw this mortal always behind it. Sum-
tricks by way of apology. An unobtrusive custodian quietly mer grew angry, as Summer does, and rolled out a 
builds another few shattered Hedge-spears into the wall. A furious sun to blister the hunter’s flesh. Without a 
Hedge courier hides her true lightning speed under a casual word, the hunter shot that sun from the sky. Sum-
trot, seeing whom she might draw out to chase her. mer, suddenly unsure, turned its chariot and rode 

on. Another month passed, Summer’s anger grew 
Legends again, and it spat out another ball of fire. And 

the hunter shot it down. Again and again. Nine 
•	 Thousands of years ago, the seasons were at war. months, and nine dead suns later, Summer at last 

Winter started it, they say, refusing to melt her stopped, and descended to face the sharpshooter. 
snows and cede the land to Spring. Soon enough, The hunter’s face was calm, but Summer looked 
all four were at each other’s throats. Summer was into his eyes, and it saw wrath. And then Summer 
the fiercest, so before long the other three decided understood.
to unite against him. He fought the battle on three 
fronts, but knew he couldn’t last, so he put a part of •	 The name we all remember is Sam Noblood. Seems 
his soul into a fiery bird and sent it away to be safe. a strange name for a man whose mien flooded with 

	 A hundred stories tell what happened next. A sol- red when he got into a fight, but the story holds — 
dier, or a maid, or a prince, or a princess, found and there ain’t much reason to doubt it — that Sam 
the firebird. They guarded the firebird against the was the second coming of Achilles. He couldn’t be 
hunters that came after it, beasts of ice or flowers cut by any hand but his own.
or withered wood. At last they returned the firebird 	 Sam wasn’t the first one to think of pacting with 
to Summer, settling the war and earning his grati- a season, but he was the first to actually pull it off. 
tude. We don’t know the name of that first founder, He made a spear out of dead wood and autumn 
but we know and share their heart. leaves, figuring the only thing Summer had to fear 

was Fall. And he went out to chase it like a boar 
•	 The tale of the founding begins with three siblings. hunt. He won that oath out of Summer by the 

The youngest sister was fast as thought, the oldest strength of his arm. And Summer was glad to go 
son was strong as the ocean, and the middle child along with it in the end, because if Sam could pin a 
was hungry as fire. With these gifts, they fought season’s ears back, then Sam’s court had a real shot 
their way back from Arcadia, free at last from the against the kings and queens of Arcadia.

42 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



THE LEADEN MIRROR, THE ASHEN COURT, 
THE COURT OF FEAR

The woman held out her fist, blood dripping from it and bodies to break or blood to spill. To get at what fright-
her skinner’s knife. “I call on the silver bear,” she said, and the ens one of the Gentry, you have to threaten the rules 
Huntsman’s silver-furred cloak bound his arms to his sides. they play by. And that requires sorcery. Nothing ter-
“I call on the seven wolf brothers,” she said, and the Hunts- rifies one of the grand gameplayers like the realization 
man’s hide boots slammed together and would not move. “I that what they’d mistaken for a pawn has its hands on 
call on the red stag,” she said, and the Huntsman’s russet the rulebook.
leather choker tightened around his neck. “Aid Autumn had many gifts to offer, but 
me,” she whispered once more, “and avenge the Ashen Court chose fear. It was a 
yourselves.” power that flowed from lengthening 

F nights and dead leaves falling 
ear from skeletal branches, of ripe 
Fear is a line in the dust. fruits rotting on the ground. 

It’s a boundary, an invisible Autumn granted the under-
wall. Fear keeps your enemy standing that death itself is 
from crossing your threshold. not as frightening as dying. 
Fear keeps your allies from Animals fatten up before 
presuming too much. Fear winter, driven by the secret 
is a fortress, and the Leaden understanding of starvation. 
Mirror knows all the secrets in Rich greens wither away into 
its foundations. sere browns. Mortals honor 

The Ashen Court has a their ghosts and light lanterns 
complicated relationship with against the deepening dark. Hor-
their signature passion. Some of ror movies and Halloween are florid 
them revel in the rush; others con- offerings to Autumn’s ancient and 
sider terror the most rational weapon in a subtle truth: the unconscious dread that 
frightening world. Obviously, they all know how perhaps this will be the year you won’t see the 
what it’s like to live in constant dread, thanks to the coming of spring. The immortal Gentry don’t understand 
durance — but that could be said to be true of every mortality in these terms — but who better than the Au-
Lost. The difference is that it takes a certain amount tumn Court to instruct them?
of introspection to swear the Autumn vow. Spring and Fear is a dangerous emotion to harvest. Stir up too 
Summer might suppress their old fears, and Winter may much dread, and a neighborhood starts looking too close-
hide from them. But Autumn has to come to terms with ly at anything strange going on. The fear you get at horror 
those old scars. movies is superficial, about as nutritious as the popcorn. 

Why, then, doesn’t the Ashen Court play more But the Autumn Court has its ways. They follow people 
like the Summer Court? Why do they treat the dread home at night, staying just out of sight and making just 
of knives and gasoline and broken glass as secondary enough noise to let the person fill in the rest. Children 
at best? The answer’s pragmatic — as terrifying as the have vivid imaginations and low skepticism, making it 
threat of violence is, it works best on mortals. The True worthwhile to seed rumors of the frightening house on 
Fae play by different rules. They don’t even reliably have the corner. A measure to frighten children might also 

infect their protective parents.

Don’t be simple. Of course it’s not better to be feared than loved. 
But someone has to wear that particular crown. 



Bargaining The Turning of 
Everyone relies on their mechanisms. When the pres- the Seasons

sure’s too great, an Autumn Courtier usually tries to find 
High Autumn: Autumn doesn’t usually take the 

a way out. They don’t run and hide, though — all that 
throne with grand displays like Spring and Summer. Their 

trafficking in terror builds up calluses on the soul, keep-
ceremonies are smaller, but more binding — an Autumn 

ing the fight-or-flight question at bay. They have time to 
monarch will hold you to anything you say, so beware of 

ask questions like “What could I have done differently?” or 
empty platitudes for courtesy’s sake. When an Autumn 

“Is there anyone I can get to help me?” That level of aware-
Queen does plan a grand event to mark her ascension, 

ness doesn’t mean they’re fully in control, though. It only 
odds are that she intends to secure her rule through fear, 

means their desperation is more articulated.
and the intention is that everyone will leave the ceremony 

The Leaden Mirror’s attention to the Wyrd feeds this afraid to cross their new queen. The coronation banquet 
character flaw. Magic has always been a practice of pacts of such a ruler is certain to be…memorable.
and bargains, especially changeling magic with its Con-

When Summer has primacy, they look to the free-
tracts and pledges. Do this, give that, and something will 

hold’s arms; when Autumn succeeds Summer, they look 
teach you how to turn the pages of reality until you find 

to the freehold’s magic. This often takes the form of a 
something you like better. So, when an Ashen Courtier 

cryptic census. Ashen Courtiers visit every member of the 
feels her life or freedom is truly in danger, her first instinct 

freehold, inquiring in the King’s name as to any pledges 
is to look for some kind of escape clause. 

they honor, any tokens they carry, or any oaths they are 
Those Lost who’ve seen this side of the Autumn Court bound to fulfill. Usually people lie, or outright refuse to 

— really seen it — may find the Court of Fear even more give up their secrets. The Leaden Mirror rarely presses 
frightening than before. When a desperate changeling starts the issue — secrecy is, after all, an important defense for 
thinking in terms of bargaining, well… The other courts are the Lost. But given Autumn’s mastery of the occult, they 
always at least a little worried that someone in the Leaden can often offer advice for better using a token, dream, or 
Mirror might turn coat and strike a deal with the enemy. Contract than the owner would have guessed. An honest 
The sorcerers are, after all, very good at bargains. changeling becomes an educated changeling. An educat-

Worse, the Fae also know this. ed changeling is of more use.

44 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



If an Autumn Queen needs to prosecute a war, or to be feared. They feel like kindred spirits, though you’d 
to complete a war that her Summer predecessor started, have to be a fool to assume any bond. The Ashen Court 
she plays dirty. She enlists the Winter Court to supply has a dangerous tendency to investigate rumors of other 
her with all the information they’re willing to share on supernatural beings. Some hope for allies; some to steal 
the enemy’s weaknesses. She searches out the loopholes in valuable new magics. All are rightly cautious.
the oaths binding her foes. She uses bait and false retreat 
tactics to lure hunters into arcane traps. She uses sorcery Give and Take
to obliterate magically weak opponents, and dispatches Autumn’s Bargain compels transparency. When the 
Summer Court volunteers to overrun physically soft tar- Court of Fear reigns, the Others and their pawns must 
gets. She disdains glory and honor for shock and awe. If give clear warning of their intentions before they attack. 
she utterly destroys her enemy’s appetite for conflict with Autumn protects its children from the dread of uncer-
the freehold, she’ll have to fight only one battle during tainty. The more powerful the Gentry, the further in 
her reign. advance it must announce its intentions; the time varies 

Low Autumn: When another court sits the throne, the from a few hours to as much as a lunar month. The True 
Ashen Court return to their archives. On a practical level, Fae wriggle and writhe to find cryptic, unreadable ways 
the Leaden Mirror appeals to changelings who want to learn. that might announce their intentions only to someone ca-
We all need to know more about ourselves and our world, just pable of their riddle-thought, but these attempts inevita-
to survive. We’ll share our knowledge with you. Just about every bly fail. So the Others draw up their battle lines and send 
Autumn Courtier has a measure of interest in magic, often out liveried hobgoblin heralds, or they scatter engraved 
with an occult specialization. One might be fascinated by invitations to a slaughter, or they light runes of fire on the 
words, and surround herself with books and blackboards; Hedge borders. If they aren’t permitted surprise, then they 
another, immersed in the symbolism of colors, keeps a spec- shall at least have grandeur. 
trum of rooms where each is dedicated to the spells peculiar The Ashen Court repays Autumn’s blessing with 
to its hue. The court is one part cabal of witches and one many rituals — more, truth be told, than Autumn ever 
part scientific community, sharing their findings. They don’t required. At the smallest level, they practice tiny individ-
hide from others the way the Winter Court does, but other ualized superstitions as minor sacrifices. A courtier might 
changelings are often reluctant to seek them out. This suits bury a packet of burnt pumpkin seeds before a diplomatic 
them, of course. It gives them more privacy for their research, errand, keep a bit of worn heartwood on a keychain, or 
and of course, it isn’t a bad thing to be feared. count the steps every time she goes downstairs. These 

Autumn Courtiers settle into a variety of roles to sup- micro-rituals are a show of reliability, proving that the 
port a freehold. They make fine advisors and soothsay- changeling can uphold even the most trivial of bargains.
ers, but more interestingly, some are natural therapists. Greater rites are usually some variant of a harvest 
These Ashen Courtiers can surgically expose, identify, and ceremony. A few of these are innocuous feasts, mostly no-
soothe a person’s innermost worry and dread. The court table for the amount of magical shop talk that takes place. 
also reaches for certain clerical duties, from cataloging the But more are hunts — the Ashen Court harvests fear, after 
tokens known to the freehold to recording the freehold’s all. It’s unclear to outsiders what differentiates the Hunt 
history. They make excellent solicitors, devising the craftiest of Leaves from the Falling Night from the Ash Run, even 
and most beneficial wording for an oath, pledge, or Con- if those outsiders are invited. They all have very similar 
tract. Some put the court’s lore to work by exploring the structure. The quarry is an enemy of the freehold, from 
Hedge, whether to find secret paths in and out or to tend fetches or changeling traitors to True Fae themselves. The 
and harvest goblin fruits. Finally, a freehold’s justice system Autumn Court provides weapons and masking spells to 
is of great interest to the Autumn Court. Winter may pro- all interested parties, and in return claims first choice of 
vide more investigators and Summer more constables, but any enchanted spoils they may find. 
Autumn accepts the truly ugly business of playing gaoler 
and executioner. Caging another changeling is a disturbing Mantle Effects: The Autumn Court’s Mantle is…
reenactment of the durance, but when it must be done, best peculiar. It’s distinctly Autumn — in its strength it may 
that the job goes to someone who can at least benefit from be a cooling breeze, a rustling rattle like a tree’s denuded 
a prisoner’s terror. branches in the wind, tiny flickering candle flames or lan-

tern fires, dead leaves spinning from nowhere and vanish-
No other court has anything close to the Autumn ing to the same. A truly powerful Autumn Mantle with-

interest in the terrifying supernatural beings that lurk ers green plants away to brown and sends shivers up the 
on the fringes of mortal society. While they don’t trust spine. But tied into all that are the marks of the Ashen 
vampires, ghosts, werewolves, or the like, these “fellow Court’s sorcery. Occult glyphs shimmer like witchfire or 
Autumn People” are grimly fascinating. Other supernatu- spread like blotting ink before fading. An atonal chant 
ral beings have magic of their own, and they are entities sings a wordless warning. Sparks like dying stars fall from 

Autumn 45



the changeling’s fingertips. An aurora of unearthly hues her tools and toys and weapons were clay as well, 
shimmers about the shoulders. The precise form these ar- things she could handle with magic kneaded into 
cana take depends on the courtier, but wise Lost quickly them.
learn to recognize the sign of a potent Autumn sorcerer. 	 But you’d be right to fear her anyway. When the 

Courtiers: An aspiring general discreetly inquires four hunts began, Clay Ariel said, “I’ll search out 
into Contracts that strike at the enemy’s morale. An Autumn,” and she set out with nothing more than 
oneiromancer captures and catalogs nightmares, sooth- the clothes on her back and a little smile on her 
ing his comrades’ rest and uncorking the terrors in the face. She came back with the Bargain, and the 
dreams of enemies. A literal internet troll hacks a dark- Contracts of Fear. Now what in God’s name could 
net database and threatens to dox the names she finds. A this quiet little clay mouse have done to earn that? 
performance artist weaves spells of dread into an already How did she get picked over the sharp-edged mur-
disquieting act. An archivist searches out the details of derers and doomcrows that set out on the same 
every pledge spoken in the freehold, recording each one in quest? We’ll never know. And that’s the lesson: 
massive chained ledgers. A candlemaker blends wax with Never take anything for granted.
the juice of goblin fruits to protect — or curse — certain 
favored customers. An alchemical vintner crafts intoxi- •	 Spring and Autumn were once husband and wife. 
cating draughts that alter the drinker’s perception of the They had many children — storms, flowers, fruits, 
mystical. A lawyer goes over Contracts in exacting detail, grains, all things young and beautiful, and all 
extrapolating new possible loopholes to exploit. A would- things ripe and sweet. But in time, Autumn fell 
be shapeshifter runs wild at night, and seems to have a ill. When her form became withered and leafless, 
different patch of fur or scales or feathers every morning. Spring could not bear to look on his wife any lon-

ger. He fled, and she cursed him for his cowardice.
Legends 	 They feuded for many long years. Autumn swore 

she’d slay whatever living child of Spring she could 
•	 Nobody could catch Autumn. She had a robe made catch, and Spring vowed he’d engender so many 

of leaves of every color, and when she wore it you she could never kill them all. When they finally 
could never tell her from a tree or a stone. She ran made truce, it was at the behest of a brave pair of 
faster than a deer, could break anything in her changelings, a husband and wife who each sought 
path, and never got tired. Many brave hunters ran out one of the seasons. Alas, these mortals sacri-
after her until their feet bled and they collapsed. ficed their own love for the Bargain. Spring’s cham-
But there was one who just walked. pion died to appease Autumn — at the hands of 

	 He was a clever one, who sometimes walked like his wife, the first Autumn Queen. 
a spider. He had a big bag full of stories that bent 
him near double, but he said it didn’t weigh a thing. •	 When Silver Marya went looking for Autumn, she 
He went wandering into Autumn’s lands until he found him waiting for her in his great bleak house, 
found a clearing he liked, then he sat on a stump sitting on his barren chair. He welcomed her and 
and opened up his bag. He took out a story, exam- offered her his blessing, his Bargain, and the hand 
ined it carefully, and then recited it to make sure of his handsome son in marriage…if she could 
it was still proper. When he put it back and made prove herself worthy. The cunning old season 
to close the bag, a voice whispered, “Another.” So asked her to gather his thousand horses by feeding 
he took out another story, and another, and an- time, to comb the leaves from his orchard by bed-
other, and Autumn gathered up her invisible robe time, and to sow his fields with wheat to make into 
and crouched there, listening. When he finally put dumplings by breakfast time.
his last story away, he said “Well, and now it’s the 	 She did each of these things, but not alone. With 
solstice.” And to her surprise, Autumn admitted pledges and oaths, she compelled birds to gather 
defeat. the horses, sang the leaves away, and persuaded the 

wheat to grow and the millstone to grind it. When 
•	 The first Autumn Queen wasn’t what you would she sat down to breakfast with Autumn, Autumn 

have expected. Clay Ariel wasn’t strong, she wasn’t smiled and told her she’d cheated. Before she could 
swift, and she damn well wasn’t frightening. She reply, he said, “But that’s good. I want a daughter-
was a little thing, whose flesh and bone hands were in-law who knows it’s better to be wise than brave. 
replaced with soft clay after she was taken. She had Teach all your children how to make pacts like 
to be careful not to damage her poor hands, so all yours, for only fools rely on their hands alone.”

46 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



THE SILENT ARROW, THE ONYX COURT, 
THE COURT OF SORROW

The long-fingered hounds ran without baying in all di- things to handle, but they have to be. So many of the 
rections. One snuffled at each stoop along the street, reach- Gentry aren’t prepared for the pain that comes with los-
ing up to caress the door only if the lights were out. An- ing something you truly loved — because so many of the 
other, pale and naked, clambered into a dumpster to prod for Gentry weren’t capable of truly loving in the first place.
warmth. A third rattled up a rusty fire escape, looking into Winter has always been the season of sorrow. Light is 
each window. Nothing, nothing, and nothing. No spoor, no in shorter supply, and darkness comes early. The modern 
footprint, no sign of their quarry. The only thing that understanding of seasonal affective disorder offers a 
was left was a white mask lying in the street, and more scientific illustration of a relationship 
soon it too melted away. with Winter that some people have al-

S ways endured. The longer the night, 
orrow the easier it is to mourn.
Sorrow is a cage. It keeps a Harvesting sorrow requires 

person from moving. It roots discretion, much like any 
them in place, cold and un- other Winter Court affair. It 
yielding. But people also will- wouldn’t do to be seen with 
ingly lock themselves within a smile of indulgence at a 
it. They embrace the bars’ funeral, or when families are 
strength, for they’re just as picking through the tornado-
strong as the love for what was strewn flinders of their houses. 
lost. They close the door to Guilt and regret are nourish-
keep other people out, as if they ing vintages, and churches and 
were sharks. The Winter Court prisons tempting sources. The 
knows that sorrow can be crippling, more ruthless courtiers are experts 
but also inspiring. You just have to be at finding and reopening a mortal’s 
certain you’re the one holding the keys. old wounds, then feeding as they offer a 

It’s easy for a changeling to be drawn sympathetic ear.
to sorrow. All you had to do was love enough. The 
Lost return home to find lovers in a false person’s arms, Depression
parents dead and gone, children grown and unhappy. It takes immense fortitude to push forward under the 
The life’s work you built may be shuttered and lightless. weight of a heavy sorrow. The Winter Court has always been 
The art you created may be destroyed or stolen. The at greater risk for depression, both in the sense of major de-
Winter Court doesn’t offer the same strength as Summer pressive disorder and in the more vernacular meaning. In the 
and Autumn, or the same abandon and hope as Spring, former case, it’s not because something in Winter’s Bargain 
but it has never lacked for numbers. Those who join the may inflict clinical depression — it’s because changelings 
Silent Arrow don’t want to forget. who suffer from major depressive disorder most often find 

Sorrow’s strength is twofold. Turn it against your en- their way to the Onyx Court. The Winter Court doesn’t offer 
emies, and you strike at their will to fight. Turn it inward, a false cure for depression, but everyone there understands. 
against yourself, and you can see through false hopes and And fortune willing, a changeling might be able to turn their 
useless temptations. The Silent Arrow keeps loss, regret, affliction into surprising strength.
guilt, and despair in their quiver. They’re dangerous 

 Cowardice? Just how shortsighted do you think we are? 
We’re not trying to hide forever from the Others.  

That’s impossible. We’re finding a safe place to wait. Until.



The specter of depression has developed an interesting spreads throughout the area, blending in neatly and using 
counterpart to the Winter Court’s focus on remaining hid- the lull to best advantage. They collate rumors, upgrade 
den. Pragmatism encourages the Silent Arrow to be ready to security systems, and check to see if each freehold member 
cut ties and run at any time. But pragmatism also encourages kept their bug-out bag up to date. Succeeding the throne 
them to develop safe avenues to the things they enjoy and the after an Autumn reign has its advantages and disadvantages: 
people they love, as a means of staving off the sorrow that sur- The Autumn Court usually tidies up after themselves, but 
rounds them. It’s a cruel contradiction: isolation helps keep a their tactic of fear can sometimes leave the local Hedge deni-
secret, but isolation can eat at your soul. Onyx Courtiers have zens inconveniently jittery and the Gentry on the alert. 
to be clever to balance these two needs, but of course, the A Winter king or queen usually seems very conserva-
court teaching is that they have to be clever simply to survive. tive next to their fellows. They make few open decrees, 

The great danger of depression is inaction. If you’re instead dispatching courtiers on secret and often deniable 
always on the defensive, you can’t make any sort of prog- quests. When they require the neutralization of a threat, 
ress. Conscientious Courtiers of Sorrow watch their fel- they commission an assassination rather than a war party. 
lows for the warning signs of a shutdown and try to be Winter has a particular tolerance for fetches, if tolerance 
ready to help. Less empathetic courtiers don’t bother, fig- is the right word: Very few fetches die during a Winter 
uring it’s every Lost for themselves. The dangers aren’t reign, to avoid stirring up trouble with the mortal world.
lost on changelings of other courts. Some can be loath to If war comes to the freehold, a Winter monarch may 
trust the Winter Court — when the Others come a-rid- take to the field — leading from a fortified rear or dressed 
ing, what happens if the Onyx Courtiers crawl into their like a simple soldier — or he may direct the strategy from 
hiding places and refuse to stand with their brethren? afar. But optimally, there will be no war while Winter 

T reigns. If their information networks, wards of misdirec-
he Turning of tion, camouflage, and discreet assassinations have all 

the Seasons been reasonably successful, the enemy will be too disori-
ented and scattered to challenge the freehold.

High Winter: A freehold with an Onyx monarch is like Low Winter: When another court reigns, the Silent 
a forest in winter — the trees seem still and quiet, but the Arrow melts into the background as usual. They remain 
roots are still quietly at work beneath the frozen ground. The active in the freehold’s affairs, gathering information and 
freehold withdraws, declares no new grand offensives, and running covert errands. They openly volunteer just often 
settles in for a time. And all the while, the Court of Sorrow 

48 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



enough that the other courts remember that they’re pres- well out of its eyes, and then daubs those tears on the 
ent and contributing. Apart from that, the Onyx Court- eyelids of the fallen. A six-masked rider arranges its prey’s 
iers tend to act only when directly asked. The Winter limbs into a mock-caper, and douses the carcass with 
Court accords more respect to rulers who remember their blue fire from a Mobius decanter. And that’s when Win-
existence and make use of their talents. They also note ter strikes. Against the Gentry, there’s no room to honor 
that such rulers are more potentially dangerous to them… these formal mimicries.
but that’s part of respect. Like all other courts, the Court of Sorrow honors and 

Winter Courtiers play support in a freehold. They repays its patron with rituals and celebrations. Winter’s 
may have a variety of roles — scouts, doctors, cleaners, practices are not as grandiose, though. Too much pag-
communications, researchers, counselors — but they’re eantry would defeat the purpose of subtlety, but more to 
all tied into the same information network, and any free- the point, a truly riotous winter festival would be insulting. 
holder with half a brain knows it. They also know a child Humans build fires in the dark part of the year to hasten 
of Winter will lie to your face, by omission or otherwise, it along and to beckon forth spring. When the Winter 
without thinking twice. You can’t trust every word a Win- Court builds ritual fires, they burn reminders of their old 
ter Courtier tells you, but you can be certain they have human lives or their secrets. When they hold grand wakes 
the enlightened self-interest that keeps them part of the in honor of all the Lost who’ve perished at the hands of 
freehold, and are invested in the good of the freehold as the Gentry, they drink little and let the other courts have 
a whole. the lion’s share of the debauchery. The Onyx Court pays 

In most seasonal freeholds, the Silent Arrow is one their debt in ritualized grief and the recognition of loss. 
of the smaller courts. It’s easy to get the impression that The most famous exception is the Winter Market, a ba-
they recruit new courtiers under protest, and would prefer zaar that takes place the week before the winter solstice. 
to keep their numbers small and trusted. That’s not, gen- Vendors must gain the court’s permission to set up, and 
erally, true. The Winter Court demands discretion, but most are Winter Courtiers trading information and “con-
they offer a place to any changeling who feels safest when fiscated” goods. But the Winter Market is distinct in that 
they’re not attracting attention. They don’t make the all transactions gain the Silent Arrow’s gift of discretion. 
same social demands that Spring and Summer do. We’ll The Winter Formal, another tradition with an in-
keep you safe and informed, so you can be in control again. nocuous name, is a once-a-year masquerade. The court 
You just have to be able to keep a secret. requires masks to attend, and uses tokens and subtle mag-

In that vein, the court upholds certain formal laws of ic to ensure that the identities of all participants are kept 
secrecy, sometimes called the Icelaw. The Icelaw defines secret. The Winter Formal is an opportunity to socialize 
the most important things to protect. For instance, Win- without the stress of politics, where everyone keeps se-
ter stresses the medieval idea of courtly love, to protect crets together.
the heart and reputation. Hate, like love, is best kept to Finally, Radio Free Fae is a tradition with no roots in 
yourself until it threatens to consume you, and then it the Bargain. As such, not all Winter Courtiers approve. 
must be acted on with swift discretion. A Winter Courtier Radio Free Fae is a bootleg broadcast, its location con-
must always be ready to evacuate or vanish, should the stantly moving and as secret as the identity of its partici-
freehold suddenly fall. And the world is full of other su- pants. Its stated purpose is to share information that all 
pernatural beings who simply cannot be trusted — avoid Lost should know, even if the Winter Court hasn’t cleared 
them if possible, mislead them as much as you can, and some of that information for release.
never meet with one alone. Mantle Effects: The Winter Mantle is subtler than 

G those of the other courts. At lower levels, the Onyx 
ive and Take Courtier might be confused for a courtless; at higher lev-

Winter’s Bargain is one of the strangest of them all. els, an observer might mistake the courtier for someone 
While the Onyx Court is in power, the Others and their much less potent than they are. And why not? If the Silent 
hounds are compelled to mourn, to truly mourn, their Arrow’s primary goal is to elude notice, it would make lit-
victims. An invader cannot bloody its blade or talons a tle sense to proclaim one’s power far and wide. The most 
second time until it has ritually acknowledged the death prominent feature — relatively, of course — is a feeling 
of its first target. The Bargain makes a Winter battlefield of starkness. The Winter Mantle creates a sensation of 
a truly peculiar sight, for most True Fae have no real idea stillness and clarity, of light falling in just that way that 
how to mourn and can only approximate some form of reveals the little details in the changeling’s surroundings. 
guess. A spidery figure crouches over a corpse, spinning At its most powerful, or when the Lost uses magic, Winter 
and folding a sticky origami insect to lay on its chest. An becomes a bit more evident. A few snowflakes fall, or a 
ice-skinned lady twists the arm of her servant until tears faint wind is cold out of all proportion to its gentle touch. 

If a full flurry churns around a Winter Courtier, run. 

Winter 49



Courtiers: A forensic scientist finds clever ways to never complained, she never spoke of her family, and 
destroy evidence or plant false clues to misdirect their indeed she was too polite to speak of her pain at 
hunters. An aged librarian teaches others the secret all. Winter marveled at the fortitude and manners 
speech of riddles with no answers. A stone-skinned hit- of this small child, and announced that he would 
man loads bodies into the trunk of a car that devours adopt her for his own.
them. A pale, eyeless architect builds tunnels and cham- 	 Eventually the child came out of the woods. When 
bers that never appear on any map. A favor broker par- she emerged, she wore a crown of ice and robes 
lays stolen secrets into influence with the Goblin Market spun from heavy snowdrifts. She taught other chil-
itself. A school custodian passes on news to other Lost dren like her all the secrets that she learned from 
about the children they never see. A therapist teaches Father Winter, but to this day she has never spoken 
her brokenhearted clients how to face their innermost se- as much as her old family’s name.
cret demons and how to live with grief. A funeral-home 
director fakes the deaths of certain sensitive clients, for •	 Back when Sam Noblood was hunting Summer 
a reasonable fee, of course. A software engineer buries and Clay Ariel was negotiating with Autumn, 
stealth code into apps to hide or reveal certain locations. there weren’t many volunteers to chase down Win-
A gawky wallflower attends all the grand parties with her ter. Only one person declared he’d force Winter 
more glamorous friends, and carefully notes with whom to strike a bargain like the other three. The court 
they leave. A conspiracy theorist catalogs evidence about remembers his name as Snowflake John, though 
the movements and activities of vampires and werewolves, it was surely something else. We don’t remember 
and prepares elaborate contingencies should they look the his face, though; he was called Snowflake John 
freehold’s way. 	 because you couldn’t pick him out of a crowd any 

more than you could pick a snowflake out of a drift.
Legends 	 John laid out his challenge to Winter, and then…

he disappeared. Nobody saw him again for two 
•	 Not everything green and growing is kind. Once, years. When he finally showed up again, he claimed 

many fair young men and women were captured for it was done — he’d bested Winter because Winter 
the gardens of a Keeper called the Earth Mother. The hadn’t managed to find him for two full turns of 
Earth Mother was beautiful and giving, but she de- the seasons. It was a ridiculous claim. Surely he 
manded utmost obedience. If someone displeased her wasn’t telling us everything. But we had our pact, 
in the smallest way, she planted them in her orchards, and an object lesson in why some things deserve to 
and they were never seen in fleshly form again. Many stay secret. 
tried to flee her. Only one succeeded.

	 The Pale Maiden had listened and learned. She •	 Winter never wanted a Bargain. He put his house 
knew that the only creature that the Earth Mother under the ice at the roof of the world, in water so 
feared was Winter himself. So she ran to the bound- cold no mortal could ever swim to his door and live. 
aries of the Earth Mother’s gardens, and she called When Spring, Summer, and Autumn all agreed to 
out to Winter to come and take her away. Winter aid their tiny supplicants, Winter sat in his house 
accepted her offer, and kept her hidden away for six and shook his head. “Not unless they ask me to my 
months before returning her to the mortal world. face,” he said.
There, she taught others how to honor her patron, 	 But Winter had a daughter, and he had been cruel 
formalizing the Bargain and forging the Court of to her. When he caught her with a boy, he slashed 
Sorrow. But after six months of rule, she vanished her with a knife and threw her into the sea. So 
again. Some say the Earth Mother found her again, one day a quiet fisherman went out to the sea, 
but that’s a fool’s supposition. We know where she and he tied a pretty necklace to his fishing line, 
must have gone — back into Winter’s domain, to and he lowered it down to her as a gift. When 
the seat he keeps for her by his throne. she followed his line up to the surface, he tended 

her wounds, brushed her hair, and promised he 
•	 There was a child, unloved by her family, who ran would marry her if that was what she wanted. She 

deep into the woods to escape them when they were carried him swiftly down to her father’s house, 
angry. She curled up in the snow, shivering, waiting and pushed him through the door before he could 
to fall asleep forever, but the plumes of her breath freeze or drown. Winter was very displeased that 
drew Winter’s attention. He came and sat beside he’d been found, and that he would have a new 
her, and the chill of his robes drew the warmth from son-in-law — but a promise was a promise. The 
her, and he asked her to tell him her story. But she Bargain was his wedding gift.

50 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



Kiths
Sometimes, a True Fae needs its servant to be some-

thing unique, with a particular purpose. Sometimes, a 
changeling looks into a golden box she shouldn’t have, 
or eats a fruit from a strange tree after three days of flee-
ing her master’s hounds. Sometimes, the soul, for what-
ever strange and occult reason, just fits into a particular 
shape. This transformation is called a kith. Most change-
lings who make their way back through the Hedge have a 
kith — their new powers are a double-edged sword their 
masters failed to grasp. These different kiths fill many dif-
ferent roles and perform diverse functions in Lost society. 
Mechanically, a kith blessing represents this. A blessing 
has two parts: a lowered exceptional success threshold 
on a roll in a specific circumstance, and a power unique 
to the kith.

Below are 12 sample kiths for use in your Change-
ling: The Lost chronicle. By no means are you limited to 
these 12 — see the kith creation rules in Chapter Seven 
for more on building new and interesting kiths for your 
chronicle.

Artist
Would you mind stepping to the side? You’re blocking 

my light.
Artists are not just the painters, the sculptors, the 

architects, or the composers. They are, in a very real way, 
their art. True Fae rarely abduct established artists to 
make Artist changelings. Novices, amateurs, and strug-
gling small-timers might all become Artists. The Gentry 
don’t care about the initial quality. What they want is an 
Artist trained to create things solely for them.

As part of their durance, Artists often develop physi-
cal characteristics of their chosen medium. A sculptor’s 
skin might become gray and flinty, whereas a painter 
might have splashes of random, vivid colors in their hair. 
In Arcadia, a prison of their own frenzied activity held 
them. Stopping to rest might mean punishment, often 
in the form of being forced to destroy their own half-
finished piece, or watching their Keeper do so because it 
wasn’t perfect. Occasionally, a True Fae calls an Artist to 
help “design” a new changeling — with similar results if 
they stop working before the victim is finished. As such, 
many Artists are usually extremely protective of their 
works in progress, never letting them see the light of day 
until they are absolutely flawless.

Ogre: The architect has arms like Corinthian col-
umns, bulging out of the shirt that’s a bit too small for 
them. Their shaggy hair is always full of paint dust and 
wood shavings. They are surprisingly gentle for their size 
— but a force of nature if interrupted.

Wizened: The tiny, gnarled woman has splotches 
across her paper-white skin that might be ink or might 

Kiths 51



be veins. Her eyes are a vivid, unearthly blue. She is nev- their Keeper. Subtlety is not an option 
er without her watercolors and can paint Arcadia from for these changelings — their mien ra-
memory. Some Lost wish she wouldn’t. diates a soft glow always. Their Mask 

Kith Blessing: Choose either Crafts or Ex- often, but not always, translates this 
pression. When the Artist uses a Specialty for art as a pretty face or striking hair. It’s 
with that Skill, achieving three successes counts difficult to look away when a Bright 
as an exceptional success. One is in the room.

Tools of the Trade: A good Artist is never Elemental: The air around this 
without her tools. She can spend a point of Glamour changeling ripples and shimmers 
for her player to gain bonus dice equal to her Wyrd, to as though she is on fire. Her hair 
a maximum of +5, on a Crafts or Expression roll with is a striking red-gold, almost iri-
one of her Specialties pertain- descent. She is quick to anger 
ing to creating art. All the and even quicker to forgive, 
necessary implements of once you can convince her 
her craft manifest around you’re truly sorry.
her for a scene. Fairest: This beautiful 

creature looks as though they 
Bright are made of moonbeams and 
One starlight. They have a soft, silver 

glow, and a gentle voice to match. 
Excuse me.  They never raise their voice, but 

I was talking. their anger is something to fear.
Few things Kith Blessing: When the 

turn a True Fae’s head Bright One uses Socialize to 
more than genuine passion. be the center of attention, 
It doesn’t matter what that passion is achieving three successes 
for — the arts, the sciences, a political counts as an exceptional suc-
movement, a lover, it’s all the same cess.
to the Gentry. They see it as a fire, 
burning in the soul and setting the Flare: A Bright One always 
creature who feels it alight. Humans has a visible glow, even in the darkest 
the Others take because of this passion of rooms, though the Mask normally 
usually become Bright Ones. prevents mortals from seeing it. She 

can spend a point of Glamour to turn 
The True Fae rarely take a Bright One this glow up to a dazzling brilliance that 

by force. They go to lengths to ensnare blinds her enemies for one turn; the 
this prey through her passion, whether Mask does not obscure this light. Each 
it’s posing as a kindly college professor turn the Bright One uses this blessing, 
and suggesting that perhaps she might each enemy that can see her takes a point of 
like to switch to the Classics department, or bashing damage and rolls at a −2 on all Physi-
leaving notes from a mysterious admirer in her cal and Mental actions that turn.
apartment building. The goal is always to get her 
to go willingly, but never with full and informed Chatelaine
consent. 

I used to serve because it was a flogging oth-
Once she’s in Arcadia, the Keeper turns the erwise. I left to get away from the whips and the 

changeling’s passions up to a fever pitch. It sub- cook’s rolling pin and the ever-present threat of 
jects her to nightmare after nightmare, always cen- the hounds — but I still serve. I am useless if I 
tered on the things she loves, and punishes her if don’t serve. Another drink, madam?
she shows any emotion. She becomes a Bright One 
when the built-up rage and anguish explode out of Chatelaines are the perfect servants. 
her in a flood of light and fury. For some change- Taken to Arcadia by Gentry with a taste for 
lings, this becoming is when they escape their the finer things in life, these changelings are 
durance. For others, they are stuck lighting innu- butlers, stewards, housekeepers, and domestic 
merable inhuman balls, dinners, and hunts, only workers of all stripes. Their Keepers choose them 
making their escape at a moment when they can blind for their attention to detail, throwing them into 

52 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



their durance with no training and the full expectation before their captivity, be it grief from a breakup or a 
that they will provide exactly what the Fair Ones want, death, loss of direction in life after a stressful event, or 
when they want it. just burnout. 

Rare is the Gentry who keeps just one Chatelaine. A Almost every Gristlegrinder has tasted changeling 
new changeling in a Fae household is expected to learn flesh at some point. The Gentry make good on their 
from the older, more established servants, and woe be- threats once they can’t find a use for a misbehaving thrall 
tide the servant who does not learn her place quickly and anymore, so many Gristlegrinders have vivid memories 
quietly. Keepers rarely have to punish their Chatelaines of butchering, cooking, and eating other Lost — or sim-
directly; a simple sign of displeasure is more than enough ply snapping their necks and swallowing them whole. 
to send the household scrambling to chastise the errant Many Gristlegrinders actually ate their way out of Ar-
changeling. Chatelaines quickly learn to work within a cadia, whether by devouring the hobgoblins and night-
system, using others’ power to survive while serving a ca- mares standing in their way, or chewing a hole through 
pricious master. the Hedge. The devouring doesn’t stop when they leave 

This quiet movement through hostile social terri- Arcadia, however. Their hunger is all-consuming, be it 
tory becomes an escape. When a changeling is beyond for love, blood, money, or simply more food.
reproach, who’s to say he can’t walk right out the front Rumors fly that some Gristlegrinders have a taste for 
door? The Chatelaines that come back through the live flesh. Most fervently deny the truth of this supposi-
Hedge are usually lower in the hierarchy. While it is not tion, but their fellow Lost look upon them all with suspi-
unheard-of for an established majordomo or lady’s maid cion, regardless.
to have a place in the Lost courts, the peons who were Beast: She has a shark’s eyes, a wolf ’s ears, and a 
too tied to mortality to fit neatly into the pecking order of mouth big enough to swallow you whole, my dear. She is 
a Fae household are more likely to flee successfully. always hungry, and always smiling.

Darkling: A quiet servant with small fangs who seems Ogre: Fee, fi, fo, fum. This is the giant from child’s 
to fade into the shadows that gather around her whenev- stories, the one with the small eyes and the gnashing 
er she stands still long enough. She is uncomfortable with teeth, coming to chew you up for bothering him at meal-
the spotlight and never speaks unless spoken to. time.

Fairest: A prim, perfect steward of the manor. Their Kith Blessing: When the Gristlegrinder uses Brawl 
uniform is always perfectly pressed, and their eyes and to grapple someone with intent to eat them, achieving 
hair are the same color as the brass finish. They are the three successes counts as an exceptional success. 
only person to come to when the local courts want to To Serve Man: A Gristlegrinder can make bite at-
plan a party of any kind. tacks that deal lethal damage, without needing to grapple 

Kith Blessing; When the Chatelaine uses Empa- a foe first. If she holds something or grapples someone of 
thy to determine a target’s immediate desires, achieving a smaller Size than herself, she can swallow it (or them) 
three successes counts as an exceptional success. whole. She spends a point of Glamour and her jaw ex-

Will That Be All?: Spend a point of Glamour to acti- pands to the necessary size. With a successful Stamina 
vate this blessing for the scene. With a successful Manip- + Survival roll, she gets the target down with minimal 
ulation + Socialize roll, a Chatelaine may use the Social effort. A Gristlegrinder’s digestive system deals two 
Merits of one other character in the scene as though they points of lethal damage per turn. If the target is poisoned 
were her own. When the effect ends, characters act as or toxic, the Gristlegrinder takes damage as normal 
though the target had used the Merits himself. (p. 189), unless she has a Merit, token, or other means to 

negate it. Targets attacking the changeling from inside 
Gristlegrinder her must deal at least five points of lethal damage with a 

Well, aren’t you a little morsel. How about supper to- single attack to break out, but she can’t apply her Defense 
night, just the two of us? You don’t need to fancy up — I hate or armor against such attacks.
undoing buttons and zippers. Helldiver

Gristlegrinders are the cannibalistic nightmares of 
other changelings. Strictly speaking, they don’t need the Sorry, didn’t mean to spook you! Hazard of the job, I 
flesh of the Lost to survive — they’re more like living gar- guess. You won’t believe what I saw down there…
bage disposals who developed a taste for fae flesh while in Occasionally, the True Fae need to get places that 
Arcadia. Many Gentry keep them around as cooks, guard even they can’t reach. Sometimes they need a spy or a 
dogs, and implicit threats to their own slaves. Any kid- thief in their byzantine intrigues, someone who would go 
napped mortal could potentially become a Gristlegrind- unnoticed and unaffected. When they feel like engaging 
er. The ones that do generally had some emptiness inside in espionage, the Others create Helldivers. 

Kiths 53



Helldivers are unusual among changelings in that harmlessly through her. Once she completely fades, she 
their Keepers not only expect them to leave Arcadia, acts like a dematerialized Hedge ghost (p. 249), unable to 
but encourage them to do so. This doesn’t free them, physically interact with anything except other immate-
though. Even in their otherworldly forms, still-captive rial beings and objects, such as Hedge ghosts, 
Helldivers have a silver thread attached to their person other Helldivers, changelings using the Whis-
leading back to their Keeper. All Helldivers know the pers of Morning Contract (p. 143), the 
excruciating pain of being yanked out of another unquiet dead, and spirits of all stripes. 
realm unexpectedly to face their Keeper’s wrath. She can see and interact with all of 
Once the thread breaks, the Helldiver is free. these, no matter their current state. If she 
Helldivers break their threads in different can find a gate to another realm, such 
ways. Some find a goblin smith willing to as the deathly Underworld or myste-
destroy it (for a price). Some convince the rious Shadow, she may slip through 
people they were sent to infiltrate to do it. with a point of Glamour as though it 
Some simply go through the agony of break- were a Hedgeway (p. 109). If ephem-
ing it themselves. eral beings are normally material in 

Whether captive or free, another realm, she becomes so as 
Helldivers are never in one well. She can spend as much time as 
place for long. They are al- she likes Diving, but she still requires 
ways chasing basic necessities, such as food and sleep.
some new To end this effect, spend another 
rumor of Glamour point and make another Dex-
a rare to- terity + Occult roll. If successful, the 
ken, explor- changeling fades back into the world at 
ing alien realms, or the same rate she faded out. Should 
listening in on conver- a Helldiver gain the Comatose 
sations they really shouldn’t. Condition (p. 334) while Div-
Helldivers are hungry for knowl- ing, she immediately vanishes 
edge. After all, knowledge is from wherever she is to reap-
power. pear inside her Bastion, as 

Beast: This changeling though she had passed through 
has bright, inquisitive eyes the Gate of Horn to be physically 
and vestigial wings. They present in her dreams.
move with startling speed and 
are usually content to listen — Hunterheart
that is, until you get them talking. [mournful howling in the distance]

Darkling: Even without diving, she If animals have souls, they’re 
doesn’t seem completely solid. Her eyes not the sort of souls the Gentry 
are constantly roaming the room, check- can grab onto and twist into 
ing for threats. She speaks in a hazy, dis- shapes to serve their otherworldly 
tracted sort of way, as though she’s not all there. needs. Hunterhearts are the 

Kith Blessing: When the Helldiver uses Lar- wild animals of Arcadia, the 
ceny in the Hedge, Arcadia, or another unearthly feral eyes peeking out from the 
realm, achieving three success counts as an ex- Hedge. Not all Hunterhearts 
ceptional success. are Beasts, but all spend their 

Dive: Spend a Glamour point to make durances consumed with the urge to 
a Dexterity + Occult roll. On a success, chase, to hunt, to kill. 
the Helldiver begins to fade into an in- The True Fae usually take changelings who 
corporeal, invisible form. It takes a become Hunterhearts for their mix of ambition and in-
number of turns equal to (10 − her cur- security. If being bigger and more important than those 
rent Clarity), to a minimum of one full around them was all that drove them to be more, chances 
turn, to completely fade. While fad- are good they find themselves stalking some Faerie wilder-
ing, the Helldiver cannot take any non- ness. As with any kith, this is not a hard and fast rule — 
reflexive actions or interact with objects or the environment in which their Keeper imprisons them 
people, and attacks with a non-magical component pass may shape them on its own. A Hunterheart’s durance, 

54 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



however, is always red of tooth and claw, whether they’re The Gentry draw Leechfingers from mortals who 
a vicious storm striking down unlucky fae in their path take. This definition is broad: A Leechfinger could have 
or a lion prowling an Arcadian savannah, and very few been a manipulative user, a cold contract killer, a kind-
leave without some scars. A Hunterheart’s escape may hearted fundraiser, or a polite financial professional. 
include direct combat, though just as many sneak out of Anyone who builds their identity around taking and re-
their kennels and preserves as shred the throats of their ceiving in some way could make a good Leechfinger. In 
Keeper’s servants on their way out. Faerie, they are weapons against the slaves of other Gen-

While this kith sees more Beasts than most, its try and instruments of torture against their own Keeper’s 
members’ behavior hews more to the mythic archetypes troublesome servants. With a touch, they steal life and 
of such creatures than to any Darwinian textbook. True vitality, leaving their victims dazed and fatigued. This is 
Fae don’t care that male lions are whiny layabouts who a double-edged sword for the Keeper, as many Leechfin-
expect the females in their pride to bring them carrion — gers escape after draining loyal servants and fighting back 
or even that only male lions have manes. Lions in Faerie through the Hedge with their newly discovered vitality.
are proud, noble hunters, bringing down only the most In the mortal world, Leechfingers find hunting both 
dangerous game. Similarly, wolves are mysterious loners, easier and more difficult. While brushing up against a 
panthers are sleek and sexual, and sharks are cunning mortal to steal a bit of his life force is easy to do unno-
and dispassionate. Some Hunterhearts have characteris- ticed, other changelings know they exist. They look at 
tics of many different hunter archetypes. What matters even the kindest Leechfinger with suspicion — the Keep-
most is the chase, the fight, and the next meal. ers have already stolen part of their lives, why should they 

Beast: This changeling has the shaggy hair of a hy- allow this kith to do the same?
ena, but the cold, dead eyes of a shark. Even when relax- Darkling: At first glance, this changeling could be a 
ing, he seems to always be alert and ready to pounce. His Playmate with their friendly, round face and pointed ears. 
voice is a growl, and he seems a little unsteady on only On closer inspection, however, they sport small, needle-
two feet. sharp fangs, and their eyes and fingertips are stained the 

Ogre: She’s the troll under the bridge, the Cyclops color of old blood.
hunting Odysseus’s men. She is implacable, and once she Wizened: Other fae often mistake this changeling for a 
has a quarry’s trail, she follows it or dies trying. mortal. They look normal. Too normal. Everything about 

Kith Blessing: Choose either Investigation or Sur- them is designed to appear as average as possible, from their 
vival. When the Hunterheart uses the chosen Skill to height to their eye color to the mid-alto pitch of their voice. 
track down creatures from Faerie, achieving three suc- Everything, that is, except for their long, spidery fingers.
cesses counts as an exceptional success. Kith Blessing: When the Leechfinger uses Medicine 

Pounce: If the target can see the Hunterheart’s eyes, to determine the health of a potential target, achieving 
the changeling may spend a point of Glamour to lock the three successes counts as an exceptional success. 
target in place or cause him to flee in terror. The Hunter- Sap The Vital Spark: If the Leechfinger maintains 
heart’s player rolls Presence + Wyrd as an instant action, physical contact with a target for a full turn, she may 
contested by the target’s Composure + Supernatural Tol- spend a point of Glamour to inflict a point of bashing 
erance. The target gains the Insensate Tilt (p. 330) or damage. This heals the Leechfinger, either downgrading 
the Frightened Condition (p. 339) if the Hunterheart is one aggravated wound to lethal, one lethal to bashing, 
successful, chosen by the target’s player. If the changeling or one bashing to fully healed. As long as the Leechfin-
attacks the frozen or fleeing target, her unarmed attacks ger maintains contact, she can spend a point of Glam-
deal lethal damage. our each turn to continue the effect. If the target is a 

changeling, the Leechfinger inflicts two points of damage 
Leechfinger per Glamour instead, and thus heals or downgrades two 

Relax. Let your body melt into the table. That’s it. Now, points of damage per turn.
it’s normal to feel a bit of pain with deep-tissue massage. 
That’s just your muscles letting go. Embrace it. Relax. Mirrorskin

If vampires exist, they cannot become changelings. No, I’m not Jack Smith. Who’s that? He sounds like a 
That is the generally held opinion among the Lost — the pretty cool guy.
process appears to require a living human soul. However, The True Fae are capricious, ever carried by their 
the thought of the Byronic undead ideal entrances hu- whims. Their actions seem illogical, their emotions mer-
manity — mysterious, dreamy-eyed, and stealing the life curial, and their desires nonsensical. Changelings never 
of those around them. The True Fae have seized on this really know their Keepers — Fae logic is hard enough to 
dream to create the Leechfinger. follow from a distance, let alone when you’re in the eye of 

Kiths 55



the hurricane. However, the True Fae are one thing consis- Darkling: You could swear she looked like your best 
tently: themselves. friend out of the corner of your eye — but no, you look 

That’s how the Mirrorskins at them straight on and he’s the king of the Autumn 
escaped. In Arcadia, everything is Court. Except the king would never have that impish 
what it is. That may sound tauto- grin while lolling about on the freehold’s makeshift 
logical, but a Snowskin will never throne.
set another changeling on fire and Elemental: No one has ever seen her “real 
the Hunt will never suddenly face,” if such a thing exists. You can tell who she 
become the Knights Hos- is by the shrill voice. Whenever she gets excited, 
pitaller. Mirrorskins are though, her skin ripples like quicksilver and 
anything and everything her eyes turn mirror-bright.
— or, at least, they can Kith Blessing: When the Mirrorskin 
appear to be so. In Arca- uses Stealth while in disguise, achieving three 
dia, where appearance is successes counts as an exceptional success. 
everything, this is a huge Mercurial Visage: A Mirror-
advantage. True Fae who skin may mold and shape her ap-
create Mirrorskins keep pearance like putty, making an 
a close eye on them, using entirely new Mask out of com-
them as spies, showpieces, or posite pieces of people she’s met 
sometimes literal mirrors. A or seen in photos. Spend a point of 
Mirrorskin may have memories Glamour and make a reflexive Wits 
of being a prototype for another + Subterfuge + Wyrd roll, with no 
kith, warping and morphing her- penalties for lacking equipment. 
self into a multitude of painful For an extra point of Glamour, the 
and unsustainable shapes until changeling can build a new com-
her Keeper had an idea of what posite mien as well. Supernatural 
it wanted. Some Mirrorskins were abilities that would pierce her de-
trapped on the other side of magic ception prompt a Clash of Wills 
mirrors, used as advisers or con- (p. 126). This effect lasts indefi-
sorts. Some were put on literal ped- nitely, but the changeling must use 
estals as living statuary. it again even to return to her own 

Change and disguise are their weap- natural appearance.
ons, and how they escaped. When they 
twist and turn and lose themselves in the Nightsinger
Mask, that’s when their Keepers lose 
them, too. The fight of the Mirrorskin Thank you, you’ve been a love-
is the fight to survive as someone ly audience. If you’ll notice the jar 
else in its purest form. on my lovely accompanist’s piano, I 

accept cash gifts as a sign of your 
In the mortal world, appreciation. Please don’t make the 

their capacities aren’t much mistake of throwing your platinum 
different. While they cannot card in — that is, unless you’re pre-
contort themselves into the array of fantas- pared to deal with the consequences.
tic shapes their Keepers forced them to, they 
are unmatched in the art of disguise. Some Song is an art almost as old as humanity it-
Mirrorskins use this power to spy for their self, and something that utterly fascinates the True 
courts. Some use it to make a quick fortune. Fae. While they have otherworldly music of their 
Some just use it to fly under the radar, hoping own, the Gentry love human songs for the endless 
to go unnoticed by fae and humans alike. depths of their emotional expression. Nightsingers 

are the kith who produce many of the magical songs 
The sorts of changelings who might become the creatures in fairy tales teach heroes or children. 

Mirrorskins were people pleasers before. They tried 
to be whatever they could to delight those around Nightsingers were creative types before Faerie stole 
them, or at least avoid negative consequences. them away, and not just musicians. While it might seem 
Customer-service workers, bullied children, and odd for a sculptor or an author to become a Nightsinger, 
con artists all make excellent Mirrorskins. it’s really just a matter of learning to sculpt or tell stories 

56 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



with melodies and harmonies the same way one might sculpt and others. A Notary’s Keeper writes these agreements 
bronze or write a poem. That’s not to say the process is easy. in the changeling’s blood, etch them across her skin, and 
The True Fae have odd and exacting ideas about what makes imprint them on her soul. She is both witness and oath, 
a good song, so a changeling who produces a less-than-satis- and her Keeper closely supervises her, lest its pledge van-
factory piece runs the risk of severe retribution. ish into the Thorns.

This is a dangerous position to take as a True Fae. Most This makes a Notary’s presence extremely dangerous 
Nightsingers escape while their Keepers are in the throes of in the mortal world. A True Fae will stop at nothing to 
exquisite agony from a song sad enough to make a stone retrieve a lost pledge, sending Huntsmen, loyalists, and 
weep, or doubled over in laughter from a bawdy take on a even other True Fae after escaped Notaries. Many free-
solemn hymn. Some become their song and float straight holds wouldn’t bother keeping such ticking time bombs 
out the door, carried by the notes they’re singing. Nights- around if they weren’t so incredibly valuable. Notaries es-
ingers find that, once they’ve escaped, their songs hold less cape by finding loopholes in the pledges that bind them 
power. They can no longer achieve the reality-bending ef- to the Others and walking right out the front door. In 
fects in the solid, consistent mortal world that they could in Lost courts, they’re often viziers, lawyers, mediators, and 
a realm built entirely of dreams and Wyrd. They’re far from — if all else fails — tricksters who outsmart the True Fae 
powerless, however. The other Lost quietly fear their ability into leaving their freehold alone for yet another season. 
to completely enthrall others with their song. A Notary can perfectly recite any pledge she officiates.

Fairest: This almond-eyed torch singer will have you Elemental: What appear to be tattoos are actually 
opening both your heart and your wallet to her in under tiny vines wrapping around their arms, spelling out com-
an hour. She has no dearth of admirers, but she always plex legal terms and burrowing into the skin. They are 
goes home alone. Some call her frigid, some call her prud- the person the courts come to for settling petty disputes.
ish, but they’re always back for more. Wizened: This changeling’s skin is cracked and yel-

Wizened: He’s not much to look at — skeletons have lowed, like old parchment. She smells of dust and ink, 
more meat on their bones. His wiry black hair sticks out in and when she speaks, it’s a soft but pedantic correction 
all the wrong places. But when he opens his mouth to sing, on some poorly thought-out point of legal minutiae.
the rafters quake with his baritone and there is not a dry Kith Blessing: When the Notary uses Politics to ne-
eye in the room by the end of it. He rarely opens his mouth gotiate, read, or interpret a fae pledge, achieving three 
to do anything else. successes counts as an exceptional success.

Kith Blessing: When the Nightsinger uses Expres- Abatement: Once per chapter, a Notary can com-
sion to sing or compose a piece of music, achieving three pletely negate the need for Glamour in a pledge as long as 
successes counts as an exceptional success. she is involved in its creation, without a roll. Thereafter, 

Siren Song: Spend a point of Glamour and roll Pres- the Notary can perfectly recite the pledge as long as it 
ence + Expression + Wyrd as an instant action, contested lasts. 
with Composure + Supernatural Tolerance by anyone who 
hears the Nightsinger’s unearthly song. Anyone who fails Playmate
gains the Swooned Condition (p. 345) and is rooted to the Are you all right? You seem lonely. What can I do to 
spot for as long as the Nightsinger continues to sing; the make you smile?
changeling can take a victim’s hand and lead him along 
with her, but otherwise he can’t move, although he can Each member of the Playmate kith is shaped accord-
still apply his Defense against attacks. Jarring him out of it ing to the whims of the specific True Fae who made her. 
requires an opposing power (prompting a Clash of Wills), A Keeper who plays at being a lost child might create an 
dealing him at least as much damage as his Stamina rating, Ogre Playmate to carry them around and rock them into 
or making it impossible for him to hear the song anymore. whatever passes for sleep among the Gentry. A Lady of 

Arcadia might create a brace of Beast Playmates for her 
Notary menageries, where she goes to stroke their feathers and 

fur, and sing softly in a language that no one has spoken 
You do understand that when you agreed to bind your for 1,000 years. The list goes on. Every Playmate reflects 

children and your children’s children to that Other unto the the specific attachment style of his or her Keeper, and 
seventh generation that they were being savagely literal, yes? every Playmate is made to feel needed.
The Gentry don’t exaggerate. No, stop crying, I’ll help you While this alone might make it difficult for a Play-
figure this out. mate to escape, mortals who already felt lost and alone 

Not all pledges are signed on paper or carved into most often become members of this kith. Adult children 
stone. Some are literally living documents. Notaries are reeling from the deaths of parents, new divorcees, and 
changelings who preside over pledges between True Fae college dropouts are just some examples of the sorts of 

Kiths 57



people True Fae prey upon as new Playmates. They prom- Snowskin
ise structure, connection, and love.

Calm yourself, you won’t get anywhere by panicking. Is 
It’s an open secret that most Playmates anyone dead or bleeding? Is anyone missing? 

who now exist in the mortal world didn’t es-
cape. Their Keepers grew bored with them Faerie is not all exploding chaos and wild whimsy. 
and tossed them into the Hedge. Many Sometimes it is cold, still, and quiet, like a snowfall on a 
Playmates blame themselves — after all, winter’s night. In palaces of glittering ice, or at the bot-
if they had been better, wouldn’t their tom of freezing oceans filled with all manner of unearth-
Keepers have loved them? They rely on ly creatures, Keepers enforce a frigid peace at the end of 
friends and loved ones to remind them an icicle spear. Their servants become Snowskins 
how much better off they are now. to better survive their chilling durances.

Playmates occupy an odd spot in Those who interact with Snowskins 
changeling society. On the one hand, find them to be chilly, both physically 
they were let go, not chased on their and emotionally. Members of this kith 
way out, so many Lost view them with have, at the very least, an unusually 
suspicion. Accusations of loyalism are low body temperature. Some 
not uncommon. On the other hand, develop ice crystals in their 
Playmates have an extremely valuable hair, or constantly fog-
blessing and are usually willing to ging breath. Many Lost 
help out wherever possible, so many kindly describe them 
freeholds welcome them. Their own as “a bit frosty, but 
Keepers don’t often show up to reclaim lovely once you get to 
them, but many Fae don’t mind playing know them,” or less po-
with secondhand toys. litely, “that frigid bitch.” 

Snowskins are reserved 
Beast: This sad-eyed changeling puts and mysterious at best, ac-

you in mind of a hound left out in the rain. tively antisocial at worst. 
He’s always the first to help out and the last 
to leave once the job is done. He never Before the Fae took them, 
complains, but he never smiles either. Snowskins were stable and self-

sufficient, able to take care of 
Fairest: She may not have been made themselves should anything fall 

to look like a cookie elf, but that’s exactly apart. Their durances sharp-
what she reminds you of: long, curly red ened this to a fine point, teach-
hair, pointed ears, rosy cheeks. She’s the ing them not to trust anyone or 
Spring Court’s best healer, but they only anything other than their own 
call on her for serious matters. No one’s ever capabilities. Their Keepers left 
seen her leave the freehold. them to fend for themselves 

Kith Blessing: When the Playmate in snowy wastelands or fields 
uses Persuasion to make someone like her of icebergs, often with little 
or her friends, achieving three successes clothing or other warmth. 
counts as an exceptional success. They freeze to protect them-

Coeur Loyal: A Playmate may touch selves. 
a wounded character and spend a point It is this total freezing of 
of Glamour to heal any number of bash- the heart and soul that allows a Snowskin 
ing or lethal damage points as an instant to evade his Keeper’s tender mercies long 
action. She takes the same amount of enough to escape Arcadia. Bright, expres-
mild Clarity damage as bashing dam- sive souls attract the Gentry, not lumps of 
age healed, and the same amount ice and shadow. Snowskins usually escape 
of severe Clarity damage as lethal unnoticed once they force this change of 
damage healed; apply the mild heart. Complete empathic shutdown comes 
damage first. She can’t heal more with a price, however — Snowskins learn to 
damage than she has room to take escape by putting themselves first, and to hell 
more Clarity damage. It is entirely with everyone else, an attitude that does not 
possible for a Playmate to lose her- change easily. Even once they’re back in the 
self completely while healing others.

58 Chapter One: The Face in the Mirror



mortal world, some never warm up to their fellow Lost, Kith Blessing: When the Snowskin attempts to use 
and those who do form extremely strong attachments to Subterfuge to hide her feelings from others, achieving 
those they let in. three successes counts as an exceptional success.

Elemental: Her hair might have been platinum blonde Heart of Ice: A Snowskin’s derision is more vicious 
once, but it is now the iridescent white of a virgin snow- than a howling blizzard. When she attempts to shut 
field. Her finely chiseled face always seems to be sneering someone down in front of an audience, spend a point 
at something, and she is never without her motley. Only of Glamour and roll Presence + Intimidation + Wyrd, 
those pledge-bonded to her know it’s because she’s afraid contested by the target’s Composure + Supernatural Tol-
to be alone in a crowd. erance. If the Snowskin succeeds, her target gains the 

Ogre: She is the hulking enforcer of the Winter Shaken Condition (p. 344) and suffers a −2 on all Social 
Court, all sharp angles and corners. No one has ever rolls involving other changelings until the Condition re-
heard her speak in more than monosyllables, and she solves, as her contempt freezes him out of society.
doesn’t make friends. However, no one in the freehold is 
a fiercer protector of new escapees or a better guide to the 
local Hedge and trods.

Kiths 59



Part II

John
It always starts the same way. Everyone already fleeing the burning building, lightning striking over 

and over, driving out the darkness in the night sky. Sometimes I’m standing amid the fleeing people, count-
ing them as they turn to monsters before my eyes. Sometimes I’m running with them, my limbs stretching 
out in front of me, my hands disappearing into mist. The words of my scream catching in my throat and 
dissolving into a toneless sigh. Sometimes I’m on the roof, directing a man hurling lightning bolts, showing 
him who to strike next. I’m dreaming it a couple of times a night now. Cycling through the possibilities, 
faster and faster.

When I was little, I knew that I saw things in my head. That I remembered them before they hap-
pened. People getting hurt. People dying. Once, I tried to warn my aunt that her cat was going to be hit 
by a car, but she just blamed me when it happened. I didn’t tell anyone after that, but the seeing never 
stopped. I tried to ignore the memories when I had them, and more often than not they were so disorient-
ing that it was easy to just call them dreams. This doesn’t feel like a dream anymore, and it’s never come 
on so strong. Never carried so far into waking. I can smell the rain already. Petrichor wafting up from dry 
concrete. Cold droplets on my skin under a clear sky.

I feel like I’m being asked to pick a side, but I don’t know which is which, only that not picking is just 
as dangerous. Something bad is going to happen, and if I’m not careful, it might be my fault. And I don’t 
think I have much more time. I have to tell someone soon. So I went to a coffee shop. 

Don’t laugh. I couldn’t think of anyone I knew who would believe me. A stranger seemed almost more 
likely to take me seriously. So I sat outside, in a chair that was going to be washed away, watching rain 
fall into my cup, waiting for the rumble that meant it was finally too late. The tide pools just across the 
street were almost dry. The water all drawn back to the bay and the sea, exposing the barnacles and tiny 
plants that burrow into the rocks. The cold sea water that will rush over this rocky ledge won’t dislodge 
them, but the wrecked wood that it carries back will.

Her hair is a short black spray, and I know she’s going to live, so she seems like a good choice. 
I recognized her frightened face from futures where I ran or sometimes stood alongside her. Wendy. 

Wendy who ran. Just once, she and I ran. Pulling along two children that wail to go back. The littlest 
flies out of my arms, struck by the same bolt that hits me. Not that path, hopefully. Her children and I 
would die together. She flinched when I told her about the dreams. About the tide coming in. About the 
apartment building. About the monsters.

“They’re not monsters.” She almost hissed. And as she shook, feathers fell from her hair. “They’re 
just people. Just kids.” She wanted to go back right that moment. To get her children. To sound an alarm. 
To do something.

Hearing her hot breath in my skin, I pulled at the hem of her cuff. “Please.” I whispered over the 
screaming. “Please listen.”



I told her about the sea. I told her about the man with electricity in his heart, whose skin was too 
tight for his bones. The hungry shadows he pushed us toward, with their silver nets sifting us off the 
ground like pearls in sand. Once I opened my mouth, I couldn’t close it. I told her about everything. 
Even the cat. She listened to me quietly, asking gentle journalist questions as the wind hissed and the rain 
started pricking our skin. Looking for facts, some seed buried in my memory than we could start from. 
Then she told me about her children. About her new home. About being surprised by love. And about 
what we needed to do. Because it was too late to run now, we had to fight or burn.

Or that’s what she said, at least. I felt wrung dry. Like I had nothing left inside me now that I had 
delivered this message to her. But she dragged me along, and I wasn’t in any position to argue with her. If 
I didn’t come along, she wouldn’t succeed, and it would be my fault. If I did, it still might, but it would 
at least have been a choice. The rain finally felt as strong on the outside of my skin as it did on the in-
side. I said goodbye to the chair. And then she took me home. 

I watched our reflections in the windows. Each failure splashed across our faces, bathed in firelight. 
How to thread the needle? Confront the man with wrath in his hands, and everyone dies faster. No sur-
vivors, neither red hind nor spring hare doe. Let him alone, and many flee, but none are saved. She had 
a plan, but it wouldn’t stay under my skin. All I could see were the mistakes we might make. What will 
happen if I don’t convince him. If she can’t empty the lobby. If a black-haired woman can’t lead the right 
people to the right roof. If there are three children instead of five. If the blonde in the pink skirt doesn’t 
accept an invitation or trust a strange hand. So many ways for it all to go wrong. But after that it stops 
— mid-gesture, mid-thought.

The streetlights finally died, and we drove the last mile in darkness, by hope and by memory, amid 
strange growls and the suggestion of hands against our windows. The parking lot was flooded with people 
and the sea. Murky water rushed up out of storm drains, full of small gray fish that gathered where our 
feet fell, dragging our steps back out toward the blackness beyond. She passed through the lobby lights, 
cast onto the puddles below our feet. When she opened the door, I trailed after her like a little gray fish. 

Inside, the scene had already begun. Three of Wendy’s kids were already quietly ushering people out 
— two teenagers and a baby, waifish and covered in silvery feathers. A man with no eyes, who looked 
like he’d been crying. Two ghostly children trailing after a woman with short purple hair and a cow’s tail 
peeking out below her skirt. But two children were missing. The blonde and black-haired women were 
close enough to kiss, all three whispering when they wanted to be shouting. But their arms were pulled 
tight and angry against their bodies.

“Well, isn’t this a sweet tête-à-tête.”
Lightning stood among them, skin too tight for his bones, crackling around the edges of my vision. 

And I was blind. 






Fantasy is hardly an escape from reality. It’s a way of understanding it.
Lloyd Alexander, A Visit with Lloyd Alexander

You were torn from an ordinary life where you thought of seeking them, you might grow bored. Spoiled. You 
you knew the rules into one of servitude and phantas- might lack a certain empathy for the world you are mak-
magoria. You escaped, fought your way back through the ing and remaking. You would be, after all, the only subject 
brambles between worlds, and reclaimed your body, your in a world of objects. 
soul, and most importantly, your life. A Fae won’t remember a time when they weren’t the 

This chapter guides you through what those experi- master of their own destiny. (Perhaps not can’t, but cer-
ences were like, what they might have been and how they tainly won’t.) They have always walked amid the briars 
might have felt. Then it delves into what life is like now, and the dreaming places, taking the very air and shaping 
and how you take ownership of it. it. Building a world out of bodies that were to hand. Like 

yours.
Arcadia

Once
Arcadia is the realm of the True Fae. It is neither the 

wellspring nor the gutter of imagination, but imagination The Fae are from Arcadia, and of it. In Arcadia, they 
defines it. Arcadia is a stage, with the will of the True Fae can shape the very fabric of the world. Tell any story. Be 
its lights and sounds, and their changeling and hobgoblin any villain. Or hero, if it could suit them. 
captives its actors. In Arcadia, the whims of the Fae are They are inscrutable, but not unknowable. They 
the laws of physics. And that can make it damn hard to have voices, patterns of behavior, ways of moving through 
get home. Arcadia, esoteric families they love and war with. The 

logic of their actions isn’t always sound to an outside per-
The Fae, The Gentry, spective, but given time and a safe place to stand, you 
Your Keepers could begin to predict them. Unfortunately, being able to 

sense the direction of the tide can’t keep you from get-
The Fae are caprice wrapped tight around endless desire. ting knocked over by it. And for most changelings, the 
Standing in the right spot, with the right manner of motivation is indistinguishable from the act. The Fae are 

looking, a Fae could create everything they can imagine. the instrument that created the durance. The Fae use 
Literally any desire that might fleetingly cross their mind, changelings.
Arcadia can provide. After 1,000 lifetimes’ whims met They don’t lack for options. The Hedge is bustling 
with only as much difficulty as you desired in the moment with creatures that can carry out a Faerie’s desires, not 

Arcadia 63



counting those she might simply summon forth. Perhaps no more so than that Fae’s own desire. Fae make change-
it’s more satisfying to take a life than it is to create one. lings out of your bones and their whims. 
Tearing a goblin from their life is even destructive in a It’s hard to say how time passed. In Arcadia, time 
way you and they recognized in one other, when they felt more like a visiting guest than a steady companion. 
risked to meet your eyes. But they seek out humans and Someone for whom you dusted off the furniture and made 
set them apart in Arcadia, bestowing both greater “favor” polite conversation with. But whom, in their absence, you 
and more severe punishment. And while a goblin is only couldn’t quite remember how you knew. Events occurred, 
a stroll away, a kidnapped human from the exotic mortal certainly. But whether they all happened in one heart-
world is more of a challenge. It’s tedious to steal a baby breaking instant, or dripped along over lonely centuries, 
and hand raise it to harvest the fruit that shrivels at your is hazy.
touch. But it’s quite the game to lure an adult who’s strong Other strange beings cross through Arcadia, or live 
of limb and wishing softly for a different life. within it, hidden at the end of some long forgotten path, 

A Fae with a captive becomes their Keeper, and their like the Huntsmen in their distant woods. Before a Keep-
recreator — by drawing on Arcadia to reshape a human er steals their hearts, before they are called up and filled 
into a changeling. That person’s original temperament or with a new heart’s desire, their footsteps measure out the 
skill might be taken into account in their reshaping, but natural order of the forest.

They came to you as a swarm of bees, piercing your fingers and crawling under your tongue and wrapping 
a tight new skin around you. Now you’re busy constantly, flying from task to task with a purity of focus you 
dreamed of some eternity ago. You’ve been building a machine on the head of a pin, out of ferrofluid and 
magnets and matchsticks, when you catch yourself holding your breath. When was the last time you breathed 
out? When did the wind last refresh you?

• • •

You never actually saw his face, always covered in shadows and clouds. But you crossed his path once, 
walking home from the park. Impossibly long arms pulled you up by the scruff of your neck and flung you 
sideways. You never dared to move after that. You held a red lantern out at an angle demonstrated by a man 
whose face had folded into a cradle of soft lines. Like so, and wait for his arrival. There was never an arrival. 
The lanterns and carriers around you eventually burned out. One, then another, until you were alone in castle 
that had fallen to ruin. Not even wolves came.

• • •

She was always dying. Every morning you wove her a new shroud; every night you and your sisters 
gathered around her to weep, every morning she woke dissatisfied with your lace. Now, once she is laid to 
rest, you begin to spin for tomorrow. You sit with her in her cell, your eyes going pale and wide doing her 
work in dark places. You work by touch and the moonlight reflected in the pool of water at your feet, and you 
won’t see the sun again until your shrouds are as light as dawn. You’ve tried moth wings and spiderwebs and, 
strand by strand, your own hair. Tonight, perhaps your breath will be light enough.

• • •

Their arms were many and they spoke in chirps and hums that rattled your ears to bursting. Their 
laughter was the sound of storms and electricity and wire whipping in the wind. Your face was the prism 
through which they spoke. Your hands a constant flow of speech that a woman with black eyes and 12 fingers 

64 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



recorded in a small blue book. When the two of you were alone, she taught you what the words meant. What 
they were saying through you. Then one day she was gone, and a hairline fracture cracked your face.

• • •

The seaweed caressed your skin, and long webbed fingers curled around your arms. The depths have no 
light for your eyes to adjust to, but for the occasional blinding glare off the eye of a deep sea fish. Amid his 
whispers and your heartbeats, you watch over his hundred gleaming children, rubbing their glassy eyes with 
something that feels like silk and smells like sulfur. When their wings are sharp enough to cut your hands, you 
carry them as far as the flanks of the seamount. There might be a pale cream of blue a heavy mile above you. 
Or perhaps too much ointment has gotten into your eyes.

• • •

The scent of flowers first, overwhelmingly sweet and near. Then actual blossoms, filling your nose 
and mouth, trickling from your lips. Finally, petals erupting from your mouth with every gasping cough. 
Afterward, only wet and dry and cool and hot, and sometimes, a lung full of petals. By and by, a green man 
comes to prune your hands and brush the petals from your face. Your thorns catch his cloak, and as the fiber 
clings to you, you remember skin. You remember skin breaking.

Now — pushing away your past in favor of a human present — 
She looks you straight in the eye and says, “We should is dangerous, too, even if it makes some days smoother. 

celebrate,” before clapping her hands and pouring lavender When you forget too much, you lose sight of how fragile 
champagne into your open palms. She draws your hand to- your freedom is. 
ward her mouth, and when you startle awake you’re not sure Because your past hasn’t forgotten you, and you’re 
if it was a memory or a threat. Maybe she did like flowers and still on the run. No matter how scorched the plain on 
the color purple and treating you like a vessel to fill. Maybe which their towers once stood, no matter how bloodless 
she just tripped down the Dreaming Roads, straight into the and cold the body — what Arcadia shows you can never 
back of your head, to remind you that no matter how far you really be trusted. That doubt makes your palms itch every 
run, you’re always going to be Hers. time you walk through an archway, or go 10 minutes out 

Your memories are shaky these days, and your dreams of your way to avoid it. The Fae are petty, yet careless. 
are worse. Whether your time with the Fae was an inter- The Fae are vengeful, but bored. It’s not exactly flatter-
minable drudge or a relentless hail of activity, it’s blurring ing if your best hope for freedom is that your Keeper let 
around the edges. But the general shape remains, and ter- you go because they’ve forgotten you exist. But it’s better 
rifying moments sometimes burst through and leave you than nothing. Otherwise, someone lurks in your doorways 
shaking. The time you were whipped for bringing a green and mirrors, and they want their pet back, if for no other 
fruit to the table. The honeysuckle smell of the gardens, reason than that you tried to take it away. Nothing here 
where you buried maiden after maiden. The crunch of can quite be trusted either, but you ran a hard road to get 
boots on dry grass. Warm skin pressed against yours. A home. It would be a shame not to try to live in it. 
hammer in your hands. Blood on your lips. You’re not sure Living in the world requires a different kind of pro-
you want to remember more. tection than it used to. Driving while black didn’t stop be-

Your life is already a dull thrum of risk, and borrow- ing a thing, but the cops in the trooper car that slides up 
ing trouble from the past only opens you up to new ones. next to you might not have their humanity evenly applied. 
Every new memory you pin down cracks the boundar- The man with no face who follows you for 25 minutes, 
ies you’ve drawn between before and after. It makes it each step landing precisely a fifth of a second after yours, 
harder to keep the two separate, and stay integrated into a drum beat. The woman who smiles up at your security 
the world you ran back to. But actively trying to forget camera as she hammers on the call button again, showing 

Arcadia 65



her rows and rows of shining teeth. The black dog with something sour and strange wrapped around your heart 
eyes that make you dizzy, who’s been howling outside your and yanked you in.
office all day. The voice whispering misogynoir in your There would be a reason, because everything has a 
ear, coming from the winking man on the other side of reason. Reasons to blame yourself and reasons to doubt 
the train car. In place of a heart, a Huntsman is filled with your memory and reasons to let Arcadia swallow you up. 
your Keeper’s possessive desire. They can’t be diverted, Requests you made, favors you were owed, offenses you 
because nothing is left inside them but someone else’s committed. Someone is at fault for every bent blade of 
want. They can’t be killed, not permanently, because that grass or dusty cufflink or hot gasp of desire. And if you 
want will simply fly back to your Keeper, and be poured asked your Keeper, that someone must have been you.
into a new vessel. A hunt can only ever be delayed. But in Those are the things they wanted you to think, when 
between being hunted, you still have the rest of your life. they gave a care to your thoughts. They wanted you to 

That’s where courts come in. They help you fit a story believe you alone were responsible for your suffering, and 
to the events of Arcadia, get your feet back under you, and however they chose to treat you was far more gracious 
keep the monsters from your door. Every city divides their than you deserved, than you would have gotten from 
time and responsibilities a little differently, building on the someone fairer and less fond of you. But the Gentry are 
metaphors that speak to that community. Seasonal courts, liars, and you know that now.
which divide the year into quarters and trade authority They told you they had good reasons. But in the end, 
with the passing of one into another, are common, but not they were there, and you were to hand.
universal. Some cities may share power between all courts 
at all times, collectivizing the skills of diverse changelings Once
toward projects too big for any one group to manage. Some 
may ossify into a permanent hierarchy, preferring any kind The things that happened next, you endured. This 
of stability or continuity to the constant anarchy of Ar- was your durance.
cadia. As every changeling is both unique to themselves, One evening, for novelty and want of an earring, they 
and fundamentally alike, so are cities. Courts hold a large tore you out of your life and sat a doll of straw and pennies 
measure of authority, and speak to an emotion that burns in your place. They put your eyes in a crystal jewelry box, 
in you — Desire, Wrath, Fear, Sorrow. Joining one is em- filled the holes in your skull with silver pearls and star-
bracing, and giving in to, that emotion. Building it a home dust, and left you buried in the sand like a forgotten toy. 
in your heart, and letting it drive you instead of consume Then, when the nacre crept out of your eyes and covered 
you. Living an emotion in high definition can be exhaust- your skin, they dug you up and hung you alongside a long 
ing, but a line to someone who feels the same way you do golden teardrop that blinked slowly and lay still. Your eyes 
can be powerful, and empowering. haven’t seen your own face since.

And anyway, all your friends are there. You ran away For petulance, you were stolen because you somewhat 
from Arcadia to find a human life again, but even if you resembled a man who once attended a wild menagerie of 
slip right back into your old life, it’s hard to keep a secret sparkling beasts. He stretched and molded your face until 
that big. It puts distance between you and the people who you looked more like the one who got away, and in time 
knew you before. People who might not react well to dis- you answered to what might have been that man’s name. 
covering the tufts of hair you can’t seem to slick down are But as he often reminded you, you couldn’t hope to be as 
actually antlers, who might not understand why you can’t talented as your predecessor until you really became him. If 
bear the taste of apples. The burden’s a little easier with you don’t start remembering soon, he’ll reclaim this name 
other changelings; they see you more clearly. They know you haven’t earned. In a wooded glen on the edge of his es-
what it’s like to be changed, to have been lost. tate, a dozen iron statues with half-familiar faces stare back.

The Durance For avarice, your skill was rewarded. More and better 
tools, useful assistants, endless materials. Each clockwork 

The Fae might please themselves to follow rules in treasure whisked from your hands even as you paused to 
snatching someone away, but they follow them in their admire its smooth, animated motion. But the praise was 
own way, and only as long as it entertains them to do so. riddled with concern. Surely, with what you had at your 

You tripped, and accepted a hand up. You said yes to disposal, you could do better? What was troubling you, 
a pretty face whose whisper you almost heard. You walked that so diminished the quality of your delicate brass ma-
through the wrong door, and let go of the handle. You chines? She knew you were capable of producing better 
stepped onto a circle of bare sand ringed with sweet-smell- work. Tomorrow you would do better. You had better.
ing brush. You were framed by the trunks of two spot- For entertainment, your living flame was coaxed out 
ted sycamore trees. You picked a salmonberry from the of your body into a lantern. It went up in steam and smoke 
low branches of a bramble. Then the air grew thorns, and when you tried to climb back into it. For years after that, 

66 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



you lit the zoetrope that told unkind versions of the sto- further, delicate as the toy songbird she kept in the cage 
ry of your life. When she grew tired of laughing at your hanging from her neck.
charred body, broken hearts, and missed opportunities, 
she put you in a drawer and let you burn down to a gut- Now
tering spark. Each time she pulls you out and breathes Your durance was unique, but you see common 
life back into your flame, she asks for a new story. You’re themes when you trade stories with your friends and read 
running out of stories. court histories about the ones who came up before you. 

For desire, you were stolen away to grace the arm of a Places you were taken, people you were made to be. Your 
demon lover. They tended to your growth with great care and Keeper’s fingerprints linger on your body, and their words 
thoughtfulness. Your neck was elongated just so. Your limbs scratched out a home in your mind. And on the other 
pulled long and lithe as a spider. Your cheekbones sharpened, side of your captivity, that sets you apart from who you 
and your eyes pulled wide and bleached clear. Beauty is the were. It doesn’t leave you in wreckage, but neither are you 
polish added to a lustrous metal, the flower clipped just so. unscathed by it. And your Keeper’s fingerprints don’t only 
Beauty speaks for itself. Without words if necessary. Your linger on you.
tongue will regrow once you know to use it just so. In the They also reach out into the lives of everyone you 
meantime, while your glass slippers may yet cut your feet, be knew before. Leaving you with one of the hardest choices 
assured that the blood sets off your skin beautifully. a newly escaped changeling has to make. What to do with 

For loneliness, you followed her over stone and field, the creature made of gum wrappers and newspaper clip-
a step behind but never out of sight, and sang. You grew pings that’s squatting in your old life. Maybe you can get 
tired of your own songs, repeated year on year, and then that life back — catch the rhythm and slip in at an op-
the ones you invented as you trailed her through empty portune moment. Kill your fetch for taking your place and 
places. Now your songs are only sound, all meaning taken daring to believe they’re you. Run your old life again. Or 
from you by endless repetition. You walked with her till don’t. Maybe you feel too different from the person you 
your joints grew brittle, and your hair went white. Walked were when you and your fetch parted ways. They were the 
till she had to guide you by the hand, lest you tumble one who finished your degree and found a job and a boy-
in your blindness. Until your bones shrank further and friend and a graying poodle. 

Arcadia 67



You try not to remember your own durance (or your You never would have found your way back but for 
escape) in too much detail, or else you’d never stop shak- the sad-eyed panda woman and her helpful brood. They 
ing. But the highlights stick. A Fae wanted something seemed so friendly, you couldn’t imagine they would ex-
from you, that they were willing to use you up to get, and pect repayment. Maybe they didn’t. But you found your-
you escaped while there was still something left to save. self deep in debt anyway, and wondered whether they’d 
Stories that you can spin out of horror, funny or sad or even accept anything you had to give.
cautionary. Most days you accept who you are now, maybe 
even love it — after all, what they made you into also Now
brought you out of their power. You try to remember Just as gravity is the force that says when you drop an 
what’s worth knowing, while denying your Keeper free apple it falls down to the ground, the Wyrd is the force 
rent in your nightmares. You made a friend who knows as that says when you gain something you must pay some-
much about who you can be as who you were. You get by. thing in return. This is why all fae creatures — including 

The Wyrd you — make deals and promises. If you don’t define the 
price when someone gains something, the Wyrd will do 

Turn around seven times widdershins at twilight, and it for you, and nobody wants that. This is also why, when 
a new path opens. Promise you’ll always be by your sister’s somebody breaks an oath or skips out on what they owe, 
side and you will, even if it means following her to the the Wyrd steps in to make restitution happen one way or 
ends of the Earth and beyond. Meet a mysterious stranger another. It’s why Goblin Debt demands its due even when 
who saves your life and prepare to hand over your first- you haven’t seen that troll in years, and why the True Fae 
born child someday. Take the power of the Fae for your must accept limitations and rules even while their natures 
own, but remember it has no trouble biting the hand that strain to be boundless. Loopholes exist, but even they en-
wields it. sure a balanced checkbook in the end.

The Wyrd is the ineffable force that governs all fae The Wyrd’s tender of choice is Glamour, the stuff of 
magic. It binds pledges and connects changelings to Fa- pure emotion and daydream. You know it as the tantaliz-
erie. The Gentry embody it, and it runs through Arcadia’s ing scent you pick up when your neighbor’s little girl cries 
veins. The closer a fae being is to the Wyrd, the more alone on the porch, and when your lover’s breath catches 
powerful they become. From its coffers flows Glamour, a as he speaks your name; the rush of feeling alive as you 
currency paid in feelings and passions that buy fae mira- take in these cherished moments and breathe them back 
cles. out as power. They give, and you take; then you pay, and 

But those are all just symptoms. The Wyrd has no you receive.
guiding impulse, but it gives and it takes in equal measure, You’ve heard a few names whispered at the edges 
always. It’s the power of reciprocity. It makes the rules and of hearing, the few unfortunate souls who once tried to 
doesn’t care if you never got the memo. Even the masters cheat the Wyrd’s system. No one likes to talk about what 
of Faerie capitulate to the Wyrd’s decrees. happened to them. Hedgevine gossip says that’s a rabbit 

hole even the Lost would do best to avoid.
Once

It took 580 sacrifices before you figured it out. You The Hedge
counted, because you thought if you remembered each The Hedge is the borderland between the human 
one then somehow, somewhere, they wouldn’t be gone. world and Arcadia. But it’s more than just a strip of con-
And because you knew the numbers, one day you under- tested territory — it’s a whole world in itself, one that’s 
stood: She was predictable not because she simply loved always around the edges of the mortal world. In the lonely 
so to sacrifice her subjects to her bloody banner, but be- places, where yours is the only breath stirring the air; in 
cause if she didn’t, someone she didn’t choose would fall the uncanny places, where fear quickens your step; in the 
in their place. liminal places, where you hang in the balance between 

You snuck into the garage, where he always told you here and there. An abandoned office park, weedy grass 
never to go, and you found the old jalopy gathering dust breaking through broken asphalt; a graveyard, Spanish 
there under the tarp. Because it was forbidden, you used moss hanging from the low branch of a tree; a cold beach 
the clockwork fingers he gave you to make the engine sing, at dawn, succulents dangling over the lip of a sandy cliff.
and you left the garage door in splinters as you careened It doesn’t always rip you away from the world, briars 
down the path. You knew, then, that his usual trick of catching you and tugging you into some dark hollow of 
flitting to your side no matter where you roamed didn’t hobgoblins and malevolent Fae. Sometimes a fairy glen is 
work anymore. That the pacts he made with the wind and lovely and mild, with soft places to tread, or lay down your 
the stars were right here under your hands, in chrome and head. Contact with the Hedge is the risk you take in your 
leather, and that the demands were now yours to make. reclaimed life, and risk brings not only disaster, but reward.

68 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



Traversing the Hedge and the Bastions of human dreams that line them vary 
in strength. Even the poorest offers a moment of rest, a 

The Hedge shapes itself according to need, presence, shortcut, or an escape.
and the available terrain. It has some constants. Its paths 
are always labyrinthine and confusing. Time passes ac- Somewhere else, both within and throughout the 
cording to different stars, and the land beneath you shifts Hedge, a maze shines — desolate and cold, but not unin-
under different skies. The character of the obstructions habited. In the distance, hear the song of a Huntsman’s 
you encounter there will vary according to what you carry horn, or the murmuring of voices behind the mirrors that 
with you into it. Including, and especially, what you are line the halls. In moments of anguish, doubt, or pain, 
carrying in your heart. The thoughts, desires, or memo- when you catch your face in the mirror and recoil or look 
ries that shape you will skew the landscape you navigate. away, unable to face yourself — you create a mirror-per-

son. And these, the Halls of Mirrors, are their home.
Carved through the Hedge is a network of trods, the 

country roads that lead through the wild wood that lies Once
between the human world and Arcadia. They range from 
well-traveled streets to loose suggestions of paths half bur- Most humans never intended to enter the Hedge. 
ied in undergrowth. The clarity of the path is not a good They stumbled in, through misadventure or deception, 
predictor of its safety, however. Some overgrown hiking and never found their way back out. 
trails might be quiet and unnoticed, protected by their Your first steps were easy and charming. A touch of 
obscurity. Some wide, busy roads may be kept superficially wildness overlaid on a familiar place, a note in the dis-
clear by enterprising bandits. Many trods are worn into tance that might have been a horn or a songbird, a tingle 
the fabric of the Hedge by years of regular use, but some you felt under your skin, a sense that you had time to 
are maintained. All sorts of creatures might opt to main- linger. When you crossed the threshold, things began to 
tain a trod — freeholds or hobgoblins caring for paths turn. Paths turned wilder and the noises become stranger, 
they need, individual changelings guarding a secret hol- even what you suppose must have been the sound of your 
low or garden, or one of the Fae who likes a garden path to own footsteps. A rare, lucky few force their way back out 
stroll along while in search of a new diversion.  before they’ve traveled past this point. You found your-

Objects you carry into the Hedge may continue to self drawn deeper instead. When you tried to turn back, 
work, but will become temperamental and whimsical. A you found the way unfamiliar and disorienting. Walls of 
flashlight may throw light, but as a lantern or a candle or thorns grew up in your footsteps. Gusts of snow erased 
a cold flame cradled in your palm. A phone might make your path even as you looked back at it. Walking forward 
contact, but to the person you last told a secret or with was far easier than trying to place just where your feet had 
your voice translated into a forgotten tongue. An object been. It didn’t resist the way it did when you tried to leave. 
may choose to obey the letter of the law rather than the The Hedge drew on what lay inside you, calling up 
spirit, or interpret your actions as metaphoric desires. A lit your secret fears and dreams to drive you forward. It tested 
path may glow with a sudden beam of sunshine, or become your strength even as it lured you in. Beguiling you with 
alight with flame. A sword might become a serpent in your the nearness of escape while pushing you to expend your 
hand, poised to strike the warrior as well as the adversary. will against it. But even as you were fighting a sketch of a 

Eerie paths lace around the Hedge, linking it with path into being, you were moving deeper into the Hedge. 
the minds of dreamers. These are the Dreaming Roads, And through the Hedge, you were borne into Arcadia. 

Given the chance, why would it have let you go?

Sweet wisteria and jasmine vines wrap around an archway to a part of the garden you don’t quite 
remember. It’s dusk, and the park is closing, but you aren’t quite ready to leave. It can’t hurt to have a look, 
maybe sit a moment on the bit of stone glittering just past the archway. The statue next to it is curious, 
though. Lifelike, but so modern in dress, with a startlingly expressive face. You can almost swear it shifted 
slightly to glare at you. The scent of flowers is so heavy and distracting that you don’t notice yourself walking 
closer. The statue keeps seeming to shift along the other side of the arch. Facing towards you, then away. 
Angry, then sad. Hands loose, then fists. You’re almost close enough to touch it through a spray of flowers 
when you hear your name being called behind you. As you turn to look, a stone hand wraps around your wrist 
and pulls sharply.

The Hedge 69



• • •

You stretch out on the steps that lead down to the river that divides your city, and watch the seaweed bob 
and wave just under the surface of the water. It looks, for just a moment, like hair billowing in the current. 
You fancifully imagine mermaids and sirens, and elementary school daydreams of fishtails and seashell bras. 
But, was that an eye blinking at you? The face is obscured by silty water and long algal threads suspended in 
it. Surely that smooth arc was a stone, the eye a bottle-glass pebble floating over it. Even so, you crawl closer 
to the waterline, which helpfully rises towards you. The seaweed drifts between your fingers expectantly, like 
softly clasping hands.

• • •

You’re sure you’ve hiked this way before; you should have hit the trailhead by now. Of course, trails are a 
little easier to track in daylight, and night came on so fast. Maybe you stepped off somewhere along the way. Your 
watch stopped hours ago, that must have been how you so thoroughly lost track of time. The headlamp battery held 
out for a few hours of darkness, but now all you have is the strands of moonlight filtering through branches so thick 
they’re clasped over your head. You hear a rushing, grinding sound ahead, and hopefully it’s the service road, not 
the sea. The rocky hillside begins to slide underneath you, sending you stumbling down too fast. As you duck to 
avoid a spider web as wide across as your arm, everything goes quiet. No water, no road hum, just a bassoon purr 
close enough to heat the back of your neck. In the distance, you hear a horn. 

• • •

Three handfuls of dirt, a stolen grave flower, a torn hymnal; words you knew from a voice in your 
dreams. As you threw each into the fire, a door cracked open in your mind. When you spoke, you could hear 
the wind howling in your skull, rattling your windows. The lights went out, the fire went out, and there was 
a rustling at your threshold. When you opened the door, the air was filled with ozone, and something rushed 
past you, riding on the wind. The downed power lines formed a golden spiral, and in the center was a living 
spark that beckoned to you. The air was heavy as you walked between the cables. Tightening around you until 
you gasped. When you opened your mouth, the spark leapt in, and burrowed under your skin. A way opened 
before you of light and scorched earth with no trace of shadow.

• • •

You’re lying in bed, replaying the day again and again in your head. What if you had phrased it 
differently? What if you had spoken up after all? What if you had lingered a little longer in the threshold? 
What if you had said yes? What if? Restless, helpless thoughts for the hours when you should be sleeping, 
long after the sedative should have kicked in. The wind picked up while you were wondering, hissing angrily 
through the crack between the sash and the sill. When you get up to press it closed again, you hear a muffled 
scratching against it. Then a tiny chirrup, frightened and mournful. Without thinking, you open the window 
just a little more, and it flexes. Dead leaves and brambles and a dry, cold wind pour inside. As the seed pods 
crack open and root in your floor, the ivy crawls into through your window, groaning as it pulls at the wall. 
A solemn bird with a crown of golden feathers lands next to your hand, and when you reach out to touch her 
cloak of stars, it feels like falling into a dark and empty sky.

70 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



• • •

You’re dreaming again of an endless maze of mirrors, chasing a reflection that feels less and less familiar 
the longer you search for it. On each pane of glazed glass, a face almost like your own — contorted in sorrow 
or anger, hollow with grief or longing. Lonely, lost, out of breath from running nowhere, you sit on the smooth 
glass floor and trace your shadow along it. Behind you, you hear humming distantly, and a gentle hand 
stroking your hair. A second, then a third, rubbing your temples and catching your head as it drifts to the 
side. You wonder faintly if you can fall asleep if you’re already dreaming, and four hands drag you backwards 
into a mirror.

• • •

On the third warm, clear night, you dress in green and gold, and lie out under the stars. For hours you 
whisper to them, singing the songs you’ve been hearing in your dreams like a prayer, one after another. Words 
you don’t quite understand set to a sweet melody that seems familiar, but unreachable in the morning. The 
sal branches overhead shake and sway, green leaves slowly tumbling from their branches and covering you. 
The smell of resin and sap is heavy in the air, green and sweet and musky. One by one, the night animals 
fall quiet, until all you can hear are your songs and the soft tinkle of jewelry behind you. From beneath your 
blanket of leaves, you see the suggestion of a face, framing its vivid purple eyes.

Now the briars, selling them for favors or goods in kind, maybe 
It never gets easy, exactly, to move through a space even to the someone those Icons belonged to.

where your perception of reality is constantly working Thanks to your missing fragments of skin and soul, 
against you. But you learn to negotiate (with yourself, the experience of navigating the Hedge is complex, and 
with the residents, and with the Hedge itself), and take your feelings toward it might be mixed. Most changelings 
an active part in shaping the paths you walk. Changelings return, for reasons practical or sentimental, and find it’s a 
have an intuitive way with the Hedge. Perhaps no one little like their captivity and a little like their escape. The 
survives their escape from Arcadia without a little bit of bubble of joy that comes with being only yourself. The 
that skill, perhaps the strangeness in it simply calls out to Hedge won’t accept a Mask. It burns away any illusions 
the strangeness in you. You have limits, of course. Even or disguises that lie between the world and your true face. 
adept Hedgespinners can’t make the Hedge behave too Not every changeling had a family or a home, or wants 
far outside its own nature. A coursing river can’t become one now, but the part of them that is fae feels at home 
an empty street any more than a dragon can become a in the Hedge. At the very same moment, the pain of loss 
dandelion. A few river rocks might become concrete, or a washes all over you again, undimmed by time or distance. 
dragon’s scales develop a soft coating of fluff, but their es- The parts of you that tore away, trying to find the parts of 
sential selves remain intact. Underneath any change im- you that escaped. And that ache in your soul is the least 
posed by a fae or a changeling or a hobgoblin, the Hedge dangerous thing to be found in the Hedge. 
is a dangerous wilderness — jagged rocks, cold stands of Your Keeper, for example, and all the hunters and 
trees, endless thorny underbrush. The thorns are what hobgoblins they have to hand. In many ways, a change-
you remember best. ling is a creature of Arcadia. But the Huntsmen and the 

When you first escaped, each step that took you back hobgoblins were here first, and their mastery of the Hedge 
home bled the soles of your feet and raked at your skin. is superior. The mask-lifting a changeling feels when they 
Each thorn tore a bit of you away. You try to be a lit- enter the Hedge is literal, too. A Huntsman looking for 
tle thankful, though. At least you made it through with a changeling will recognize them more fully and track 
enough of yourself still intact. Not everyone you’ve met on them more easily. (Though nearer to their stolen heart, 
the other side has. Some hobgoblins make a living picking a Huntsman is also more easily distracted.) A hobgob-
up the ragged bits and pieces people like you left pinned to lin hindering a changeling has no clarity to lose while 

The Hedge 71



Your trod is guarded by a longing for home and peace, and the promise of someone waiting for you there. 
At the end of the path is a garden you tend for your friends and lovers and the holders of your debts, in 
preparation for their injuries and heartbreaks. Occasionally you hear the report of a rifle in the distance, and 
you sink under the soil, quaking.

• • •

Hand over hand, shimmying up a narrow cleave amid boulders the size of houses. The easiest path (not 
that you’d know it from the cracked nails and bruised fingers), to a fizzing pink spring. The rainbow-haired 
gentleman who lives under its waters is as congenial a seller of lost property as you might ever find. His porch 
sometimes opens on a goblin market, but only when the mood strikes him.

• • •

Threadbare rope bridges and narrow plank walkways over the valleys and through the grasslands of a 
shola forest. Pressing on every side the sound of laughing birds. The hollow lies under a mound of fruiting 
myrtle, its door marked by a single jet bead buried in an overhanging branch. Inside you sigh, curled in the 
smallness of your burrow, and put your face back on.

• • •

Press the hamsa next to the frosted amber glass, and a tunnel clicks open under your feet. Dry and cold 
and darker than your true love’s hair, you weave through sharp Hedge roots. Thorny enough, even down here, 
to catch and rip the soul of an unsuspecting traveler. See each blue door? Each leads to what was once a safe 
house. No one comes through those doors anymore. Not in a year and a day.

• • •

Duck under the arch formed by two broken sprinkler heads spraying day-warmed water up into the dusk. 
Don’t drag or clip your feet as you step across each new threshold. First the evergreen bushes, then the citron 
trees, then step through the space inside the elementary school’s geodesic dome. The walk to the night market 
will be long and lonely, drifting so close to the silent paths, but better to be alone than seen. 

• • •

I’ve never been there myself, but you’re not the first fetch who’s asked. And even if there wasn’t one 
already when the first one came by here asking, there’s bound to be a colony of you by now. I’ll walk you as 
far as the nearest mirror crossroad, sure. My face is ugly enough on its own, though. I don’t want to see what 
nastiness might come of my reflections. The maze is big, but if the mirror-people aren’t too busy trying to 
escape, they might point you better than I. Chin up. You’ll find a home for yourself yet.

• • •

Every time I look at my reflection in water I can see a crown of thorns around my head. I won’t lie, the 
first time it happened, I ran. I thought the Hedge was chasing me. I wouldn’t recommend trying the kelp 
forest yourself unless you’re a strong swimmer, sometimes briar wolves lie just past the border, disguised as 
packs of seals or sharks.

72 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



expressing their dread powers. (Though they are softer of land upon which it stands. Pottery cups glazed with the ash of 
heart and more vulnerable to counter offers.) So even if burnt Hedgewood, which give you terrifying visions if you over-
your Keeper chooses to remain in far-and-near Arcadia, steep your tea? Strings of bottle-glass beads, which turn black 
her servants may yet be seeking you along trods and the in treacherous water? Booklets of single-use paper banishment 
Dreaming Roads and in the faces of the strangers you charms? Very nice roasted corn with crispy cricket flour? You 
walk past without ever seeing. can find lots of things at a Goblin Market.

Our Arcadian Cousins Once
You came to the Hedge by accident or guile, less im- Hobgoblins, like humans, come to serve the Fae for 

migrant to Arcadia than its captive. But the Hedge has a variety of reasons. Like you, they might have stumbled 
natives, too. Hobgoblins are made of the very stuff of in the wrong place and been snatched up by something 
Arcadia, but have identities more fixed than that would stronger and stranger than them. Like you, they may 
suggest. They live lives of interest to themselves and their have entered an ill-advised bargain, trusting on their own 
families, and have goals that you might help or hinder Arcadian nature to carry themselves away if their term 
— as they might for you. If you can find a way to tell the of service became too unbearable. Like you, they found 
helpful from the deceitful, you’ll have quite a few friends themselves bound more tightly than they might desire. 
and fellow travelers who would love to know the trick. Some might even serve willingly, just as some changelings 

Ghosts are what remains when nothing is left of a per- do — out of love, duty, or greed. You came by similar 
son but a feeling or a memory. When something that’s been paths, but your treatment was not at all the same.
torn from your soul goes unclaimed too long. Not everything You were a treasured, if unwilling, pet. They were just 
that dies in the Hedge comes back as a vengeful spirit, but to as unwilling, but less prestigious an object for your Keeper 
die in the Hedge is to immerse your final emotions in a wood to possess. You hated each other a bit, and tried to see 
shaped by thought and desire. Many do come back, and have each other when no one else would meet your eyes. It was 
a variety of feelings about having died. Much as you would. dangerous for them to be too familiar with you, though, 

Other, weirder creatures live along the fringes. Mir- lest they gain too much of your mutual owner’s attention. 
ror people flit between reflective surfaces, observing the Most erred on the side of deference, paid to the air slightly 
beautiful or grotesque scenes caught in mirrors. Some to your left. As though nothing was there, but the noth-
are content to look, but never touch. Some hunger for ing that was there was also a dangerous creature to whom 
the sensations to which flesh is heir. The face they claim they should attend without quite acknowledging.
needn’t necessarily be the one that spawned them, but You and they were many things to one another. But 
they are used to that face. Some fetches, having forsworn always they were valued below you. Always they had some 
their human lives, come to dwell in the mirror mazes and forced deference to you.
the trods nearby. Where better to live than among other 
creatures formed when Fae act on the mortal world? Now

Working behind the stalls, shopping between the aisles, But now they don’t have to be nice to you. Now you 
peering in from the mirrored edges of decorative glass, or wind- need something from them, and they get to set the rules by 
ing bashfully among the visitors, you can find most everyone which you receive it. Not every hobgoblin wishes you health 
at a Goblin Market. Goblin Markets sit somewhere squarely and fortune on your journeys. Some resent having been ex-
between tourist trap, devil’s haunt, and county fair. What you pected to be subservient to a creature that’s not even from 
might find there rather depends on the regional specialties, Arcadia. They want someone to take that anger out on, 
the frequency of appearance, and the esoteric qualities of the and an otherwise-gentle goblin may find an opportunity for 

You both served as footmen to a prince of wolves. Throwing yourself over roots that his carriage not be 
jostled. Sweeping aside dishes flung from his table. Cleaning the long, white hair from his many fine suits. 
Brushing out and delicately trimming the mane he was so vain about. She was turned out for having dirty 
gloves. You tried to escape after her, but were caught by a lazy hound that ran too slow to catch her as she 
cleared the border of his lands.

• • •

The Hedge 73



You were lovers, probably. The price of escape was losing each other’s names, and all but the feeling of 
heart on heart. You remember yellow hair and a jackal who wheezed when she laughed. Riding through a 
frigid desert night after night, shaking under the sand like mice as you ran from your Keeper’s son. Your 
hands touched before you passed a ridge covered in sagebrush, and when you turned again, she was gone. 
Was her hair yellow?

• • •

You worked hand in hand with goblin maids, sewing and mending the skins of her dancing dolls. He 
fashioned wax heads, each one a replica of one of her living heads. She liked her dolls to match her face 
whenever she thought to change it. Your hands brushed twice, and he made a new head that looked a little 
like you. She had him put to death the next day. Or at least, staged a false trial so persuasive that he winked 
at you when you tried to take the blame.

• • •

You kept the giant bees from which she harvested a silvery wax. The statuettes she made were miniature 
and lovely, and writhed convincingly when subjected to flame. Your Keeper quite liked them. After a steady 
rhythm of alluding to other lives, you thought perhaps she might help you escape. She betrayed the plan to 
your mistress, and she shrugged slightly as you were beaten before the court. Someone collected the wax for 
her after that.

• • •

You stood at her left hand, and he stood at her right. You recorded her words, he the secret signs she 
made with her fingers drawn along the fabric of her dais. When she spoke ex cathedra, you sang her hymns 
together. At night, your hands touched through the wall between your dormitories, and you prayed again for 
one another.

• • •

You were your Keeper’s shining jewel, the loveliest of his bird wives, with a cloak made of the very 
heavens. The goblin who carried your train learned somehow of your real name, and taunted you with the 
knowledge night after night. Threatening to tell you, and break the spell that hid you from your witch king 
when he had fallen into a mood. Threatening to never tell you, and let you die with the knowledge that he 
could have freed you, but wouldn’t.

• • •

She held the basin that caught the blood that dripped from the wound that was ever in your side. Her 
hands stained brown, her skin darkening in the sun. You whispered to one another in the dark — of pacts you 
had made, not knowing what they meant, of people you would be, not knowing who you had been.

74 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



a nasty trick hard to pass up. But neither does every gob- Mara Starcatcher wants 100 first kisses, and a child’s 
lin mean you particular harm. Most are more interested in drawing of a family. In exchange, she’ll tell you where your first 
managing their own affairs than yours. They can be friendly love went, and when they will next think of you. For an actual 
in their own way, happy enough to collaborate if it benefits child, she’ll tell you the words that will shatter their heart.
them. Some even sympathize with having been an object to Toru wants to put his wife’s ghost to rest, or at least help 
someone else’s whim, and having found the strength of de- her settle into her new identity as a ghost. If you can find her 
sire to flee. And if your paths cross under an unlucky sign, it and bring her home, he’ll tell you where he picked the apple 
may be no more than the cost of business. But perhaps you flowers that soothed away the confusion that brought you to 
can continue to help each other. Perhaps you have some- his doorstep.
thing the other wants, or needs. Nutmeg caught you fair and square, and she’ll drain 

What does anyone want from someone else? Hobgob- the marrow from your bones if you can’t come up with a 
lins want things or experiences that are valuable to them, riddle she’s never heard before. Maybe she’ll do it anyway.
in exchange for as little as they can give you in return. That Sylvia knows how to find the cenote where dreaming 
could take a variety of forms, however. An act of service for roots break through the Hedge, drawing a straight line from 
one in return. An esoteric reagent from your mortal world, the human world to Arcadia. But she won’t tell you how to get 
in exchange for that which refreshes and sustains. Currency there until you can prove you know how to cross the sulfur-
for goods, favors for gifts, work for pay in kind, and, of course, water barriers and deal fairly with the ghosts trapped there.
Contracts. Any Contract is a little dangerous, but Goblin 
Contracts are more like predatory loans. In the moment, Fatima Two Fingers takes the odd motley to an in-
they can be powerful and helpful, protecting you when you verted tower in exchange for ibis feathers and silk worms 
desperately need the strength they can provide. The costs and mulberry branches. When the rain is coated in 
are higher than you imagined, but in the moment, need is moonlight, the 27 stairways move back into place and a 
greater than caution. Invest too heavily in them, and your door opens. For a fresh lock of black hair and a vial of 
sense of self shifts. Your cozy trod is obviously superior to sand from the foot of a lost man, she’ll return on the next 
an ever-duller mortal world. The Hedge is more home than full moon to bring you back.
hazard. You become a Goblin Queen.

The Hedge 75



Ghosts part because you were able to come to grips with that 
Ghosts, on the other hand, are long past the needs place and its alien ways.

that would keep body and soul together. Few are particu- But now you’re back in the “real” world, and the rules 
larly happy about it. just aren’t clear anymore. You’re back where people are 

Horse-faced woman wanders a trod lined with high expected to hold down jobs, do their grocery shopping, 
cliffs and deep valleys, trailing groups of travelers but and live mundane, responsible lives. You’ve got to find a 
rarely approaching them. Her white dress is red with clay way to fit in with the world you grew up in, to provide 
dust and the blood that stained her feet while she still yourself with your basic needs — food, shelter, safety, 
fought her way through the Hedge. The rest of her soul companionship. That means reintegrating in some fash-
is long gone, but she still has half of a pair of glass-green ion with the way things used to be…the way most of the 
gloves. world still believes them to be.

Baba and Toumani still know all the histories, but But you still remember. How could you forget? Ev-
are missing a kora and a drum with which to keep telling ery time you hear the birdsong that is now your voice, 
them. Find them a flute that can play itself, and a drum touch the crystal coating that passes for your skin, or try 
that hears the beat they hear in their hearts, and that his- to brush the gnarled fangs where you once had straight, 
tory is yours for the listening. white teeth, it reminds you that reality is not the simplic-

ity the rest of the world thinks it is. 
Eelgrass wants news of his demon lover. For a few true 

words, he’ll tell you if a ghost has seen your Keeper lately, So, you try to carve out a mental space where you can 
or if your wild hunt has resumed. For false words, he’ll juxtapose paying taxes and surfing the internet with the 
bury the spark of a fight in the hearts of your loved ones. fact that you spent the last few decades as an alien god’s 

hunting hound, hearth fire, or favorite piece of art. Know-
Mimi lives with a black-naped leveret who can sing ing both are true, that your experiences with one are as 

the old songs. If you can teach them a new one, she’ll tell true as those with the other and that your memory and 
you the last six people who dreamed of you, and any se- sight can be trusted…that’s the balancing act your friends 
crets she deemed interesting enough to remember. call Clarity. Because no matter where you end up, after 

Leda Love lingers near the Halls of Mirrors, trying to your durance, it’s never really going to be the same as how 
catch glimpses of her own reflection. She’d steal your face things were before.
if she thought it would help, but really, she just wants to 
know how she died. You Can’t  
The Return Go Home Again

All changelings have one thing in common. No mat-
Your durance is over. ter how long or arduous their durance, some tie to “home” 
Despite everything you saw, everything you did, ev- gave them the wherewithal to make it back out of Arca-

erything that was done to you…you made it out of your dia, to traverse the labyrinthine pathways of the Hedge, 
Keeper’s grasp. Out of Arcadia. Through the Hedge. Back and emerge back through into the mortal world.
to the real world. Maybe, for you, “home” was the memory of the flat 

You’re back. You’re home. you grew up in, where your parents taught you who and 
And your troubles have just begun. what it was to be “you.” It might be the garage where you 

and your grandpa tinkered with cars together, where you 
What Is Real? learned about engines and life without really understand-

First and foremost, you’ve got to deal with the fact ing how either worked. Or maybe the shed you snuck your 
that you just spent the last however long in a place the first smoke behind as a teen — and lost your virginity in 
“real” world doesn’t believe exists. You’ve undoubtedly not long afterwards… 
had to do rigorous mental gymnastics to try to retain Or, maybe it’s not a place at all. Maybe it’s the visage 
some semblance of sanity during your durance. You’ve of your lover’s face, eyes still half-lidded from your last 
learned that logic and physics alone don’t govern the goodbye kiss, that led you back through the brambles and 
world around you, and an entire reality (or possibly an briars. Or the smell of bacon and baking bread and coffee, 
infinite number of them) sprawls out there that the “real” Sunday morning breakfasts you shared with your children 
world relegates to bedtime stories and children’s books. every week before whatever happened to you happened. A 
Over there, you accepted what you had to in order to whisper. A glance. A favorite memory clenched so tightly 
cope with existence across the Hedge. You did what you that even your Keeper’s deepest probing and most sinuous 
had to do, became what you had to become, played by the seductions couldn’t wrench it loose from your mind. Any 
rules of that new reality. And you survived, in no small of it could be “home” for you.

76 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



During your durance, that memory of home may have other side of the Hedge? You escape from what seemed 
been the only part of “you” that still remained. The one to be a week-long durance, but return to find a decade 
glimmer your Keeper couldn’t reach, couldn’t manipulate, passed for your family for every day you experienced in 
couldn’t change. And when you finally escaped, it was the Arcadia. Your newborn babe is now aged and infirm, 
North Star by which you navigated, the guiding light that while you look and feel more like his grandchild than 
you stumbled towards when stumbling was all you could his parent. How can you explain to the elderly woman 
manage to do. dying after a lifetime alone that you were only gone for a 

Torn and twisted, the Hedge parted before you, and few short hours? Even if she could believe you — would 
you fell, sprawling, wheeling to find there really is no place she forgive you?
like home. Things only get more complicated when the slip 

Whatever it was you held onto, that place, that per- is on the other side of the time-stream. Your decades-
son, that memory — it’s gone now. Different. You’re back long durance left you wizened and gray, and you return 
home. But nothing will ever be the same again. through the brambles to find your lover still sleeping 

peacefully in the bed where you left them. The numbers 
Old and New on the clock have only advanced a click or two, despite 

What’s changed? Well, for one thing, time has passed. you having experienced a lifetime of enslavement on 
At the most mundane, every hour you spent across the the far side of the Hedge. You’re obviously not the per-
Hedge was an hour that the world you once belonged to son they know any longer. But how can you watch from 
went on without you. When you return, the paint is faded the outside, bent and wrinkled, as they slowly come to 
and chipped on the literal or proverbial homestead that the realization that young, vital you disappeared and is 
drew you back from your durance — or perhaps worse, never coming back?
what you once loved was wallpapered over, reupholstered Someone else has, of course, filled your job. Maybe 
by the passing of time, so different from what you re- it’s your fetch, slipped into your place in the wake of your 
member that you start to question whether the precious abduction (and doesn’t it suck to find out they’re doing it 
glimmers you clung to were just lies you made up to keep better than you did?). If not, eventually even the most un-
yourself sane. You’ve spent years at your Keeper’s beck and derstanding employer can’t ignore your absenteeism any 
call, clinging to the static memory of your past, while back longer and fills your empty position with a new worker. 
home the world continued spinning along without you. If And it’s not as if you can just expect to be able to do what 
anyone missed you — if they even noticed you were gone you used to do anyway. The world changed. Technology 
—the breakneck pace of modern day society sped along advanced. When you were abducted, the idea of a mobile 
their mourning. telephone might well have been a flight of fantasy; now 

You’ve each had a lifetime, separated by the Hedge children play with toys more advanced than the comput-
and your Keeper’s cruel whims. Your children are grown, ers used to launch the first moon mission. Your career 
raised by others. Your lover went gray after years in the path might no longer exist, and if it does, the chances of 
arms of someone else. Your parents are nothing but dust you being able to catch up to your modern coworkers is 
and names engraved on a stone. Any wound your disap- slim to none.
pearance created (assuming the True Fae didn’t fill your Day-to-day life has changed as well. The internet 
place) has long since healed over in the years you were may well not have existed before your durance. Now, se-
gone, leaving nothing but knotty scar tissue in the space nior citizens connect with the world through social me-
where your life once was. dia, and phone calls have become quasi-obsolete. Music 

How do you explain to your spouse why you disap- during your previous life might have been limited to live 
peared without a trace, and how years passed with no op- performances, short-wave radio, or record players; you 
portunity to return? What justification can you possibly may well have completely missed the era of 8-track tapes, 
offer to the now-adult children who celebrated birthdays, cassettes, and CDs, re-emerging into a world where most 
graduations, weddings, and anniversaries without you music exists almost entirely in digital format.  Bar codes 
there? How can you pick up a life that went on without and scanners. Home computers. Seatbelts and airbags, 
you? not to mention electric-powered cars.  The day-to-day 

world has moved at a breakneck pace in the past handful 
And that is, of course, assuming time passed for of decades, and you’re being thrown back in from a stand-

you at a semblance of what it did for them. This is of- still. You are going to have to pick up the pace in a hurry 
ten not the case. The True Fae are tricksy folk, and or get left in the dirt.
within their demesnes, time is as mutable for them as 
any other aspect of reality. Any return is difficult, but And, as if figuring out how to juggle your current 
how could you possibly pick up the threads of a life that reality, your lost former life, and the things you experi-
proceeded far faster than what you experienced on the enced during your durance is not a big enough challenge, 

The Return 77



let’s not forget that you’re not the only oddity found on friends from looking too closely into your absence. They 
this side of the Hedge. When Shakespeare wrote that may have even showed you the fetch’s true nature, the 
there are more things in heaven and earth than Horatio’s bits of shadow and debris from which it had been created, 
philosophy was capable of dreaming of, he hit the mark. now happily kissing your children goodnight before tuck-
Your eyes are now open to a world that is far broader and ing itself into bed with your spouse.
contains more than any ordinary human could imagine 
possible, and those wonders — alien creatures, impossible Now
places, freakish happenings — aren’t restricted to the far While your fetch is not a changeling, that doesn’t 
side of the Hedge. That panhandler on the street might mean it’s without its own resources. First and foremost, of 
well be another changeling, ready to shake you down once course, is the fact that it’s been living your life all along. 
she realizes you can see her true visage. The spot on the How can you hope to convince those who knew you, once 
subway that always seems a bit too cold might be a weak upon a time, that you are really you, when they’ve seen 
spot in the Hedge, just waiting the right trigger to open and interacted with your fetch as you every day you’ve 
wide and draw you in. The shadow flickering just outside been missing? You — warped by your durance, changed 
your peripheral vision could be a spy sent by your Keeper by your experiences in ways even your Mask cannot hide 
to keep tabs on you…or a goblin hoping to catch you un- — are likely to seem less “you” than the being that has 
awares so it can harvest your dreams…or maybe it really experienced your life in your absence. Your fetch knows 
is just your imagination. The possibilities are, literally, in- things you missed during your durance, knows the joys 
finite. But, while the bad news is that you’re not alone in and pain they’ve shared with the people you once called 
this strange world, the good news is also that you’re not friends over the years. Years that are, for you, filled with 
alone. memories of an entirely different place, different lessons, 

Fetches a different life.
And it’s not likely they’re going to give up their place 

Folk songs and fairy tales tell many stories about how without a fight. While fetches don’t have the ability to 
the fairies steal babies from their cribs and cradles, replac- use Contracts, per se, they are creatures of the Wyrd. 
ing them with one of their own kind in the guise of a They have their own abilities, known as Echoes, which 
child. Like most tales about the True Fae, these stories are they certainly use to defend their appropriated life. These 
half true. For centuries, the Fair Folk have been stealing powers play largely on your fetch’s connection to you as a 
humans from their beds (and other parts of their lives) but changeling, and can allow it to hide itself as a normal hu-
when they leave something behind, it is not one of their man being, enter and exit the Hedge, heal itself in magi-
own. It is a fetch, a flimsy simulacrum made of sticks and cal fashions, or even — in the most extreme of circum-
string, meaty bits, or whatever other ephemera the True stances — to summon the True Fae down upon itself and 
Fae chooses to bend to the task. Should your Keeper leave whoever else happens to be in the area.
a fetch behind, the creature is given your memories at the It’s easy to see your fetch as the enemy. After all, this 
time of its creation, and infused with a bit of your very stranger — this thing — was made by your Keeper. It has 
own shadow. Once created, this creature lives out your been living your life. Sleeping with your spouse. Taking 
life during your durance — and is likely not eager to give your place. Most Lost, when they discover their fetch’s 
up its place once you’ve returned. existence, are filled with an immediate instinct to destroy 
Once it, to cut out the replacement their Keeper left to take 

their place.
Chances are, you didn’t even know about your fetch But what happens when the choice isn’t so clear? Not 

until you escaped from your durance. As if worrying about all fetches are bad “people.” They are a replacement, a 
your own fate wasn’t bad enough, your durance was likely false “you,” but that doesn’t mean they’re necessarily evil 
spent fretting about your family missing you, about the re- or that they haven’t done their best to live the life you left 
sponsibilities you left behind, your job, your friends, your behind. What do you do when you find out your fetch is 
pets. Guilt about how the world goes on without you is a better to your family than you were before your durance? 
driving goal in many changelings’ escape from Arcadia, That they’ve succeeded where you struggled, overcome 
and most remain woefully unaware that those they left the challenges you were battling, and essentially become 
behind are likely not missing them — in fact, don’t even a better “you” than you?
know they have gone.

Changelings, despite their desires, are often not 
If your Keeper was particularly cruel, though, they well suited to returning to a mundane life. You’ve been 

may have given you a glimpse of what “your” life was like changed by your durance, by the things that were done 
back on the other side of the Hedge. Of the cobbled-to- to you. You aren’t the person you once were. You’ve been 
gether creature left in your place to keep your family and touched by the Fae, altered by them, and by what they’ve 

78 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



subjected you to. You see things now, know things, can that turns into a candid conversation wherein the ambas-
do things that are frankly a danger to anyone around you. sador offers to introduce the new arrival to the rest of 
You’re not “you” anymore, not the you that you were be- their community. A more feral arrival may be greeted in 
fore your durance. And while it may not have started as kind, with bestial freehold members exerting dominance 
the real you, it’s lived the life you couldn’t. Raised your over the newcomer, or making strides to incorporate them 
children. Worked your job. Paid your bills. Even now, it’s into a pack, at least temporarily. Skittish folk might be left 
willing to fight to protect the things and the people you messages of reassurance, rather than being approached 
couldn’t. Even if that means fighting you. directly, while those who seem an immediate danger to 

themselves or others may be taken captive and held in 
Freeholds protective custody, at least until such a time as they can 

Like calls to like. Changelings are taken from loca- be educated in the minimum necessary truths to survive 
tions across the globe and called back to wherever they as a changeling in the mortal world.
most strongly identify as “home,” and yet some areas seem In general, after initial contact, most freeholds treat 
to attract notably more Lost than others. In these loca- newly discovered changelings with great care. Tradition-
tions, communities known as freeholds form. While free- ally, a freehold offers open hospitality for a month’s time, 
hold structures vary wildly, ideally each serves to provide during which the newcomer is welcome to interact with 
the Lost in that area with resources, education, and pro- freehold members, and is often actively sought out by lo-
tection, as well as some sense of stability and belonging. cals. Different courts may vie for the privilege of spon-
Many freeholds are fraught with power struggles and poli- soring and training the newcomer, betting their attention 
tics, but for most changelings, they are better than doing will pay off if and when their student joins the court. Mot-
without. leys seeking to increase their numbers may actively recruit 

a likely match. In an ideal setting, after all, a new mem-
Now ber of the community means an extra set of eyes to warn 

Your first contact with a freehold is likely to be not against treachery, an extra set of hands to help protect, 
long after your escape. While countless portals lead out of and additional knowledge. Unfortunately, not all situa-
the Hedge, the nearest freehold watches the most com- tions are ideal.
monly manifesting ones, in hopes of intercepting recently Not all Lost who return through the Hedge are exact-
freed changelings before they can wreak too much havoc ly what they seem. Some work, knowingly or not, willingly 
on the world to which they’re returning. Some freeholds or not, for the True Fae, even after their durance ends. 
even sponsor scouts to patrol the Hedge areas nearest to Privateers may pose as newly escaped Lost, pretending to 
their city, not only to observe and deal with any threats be injured, ill, or simply confused. Like a bird pretending 
to the freehold from Hedge denizens, but also to rescue to have a wounded wing to lure predators away from their 
those who may have escaped Arcadia but for some rea- nest, they persuade gullible freehold members to follow 
son have been unable to find their way fully back to the them off the beaten path and into an ambush. They cap-
mortal realm. ture these unfortunates and sell them to the Goblin Mar-

Even experienced changelings must take care when kets, or to the True Fae themselves. Other Lost may pose 
dealing with the newly returned. Many Lost are ravaged as newly returned to learn more about the inner workings 
by the trials and travails they endured during their du- of a freehold. This knowledge could then be sold to a rival 
rance: physically injured, mentally scarred, emotion- freehold, to Goblin marketeers, or even to those who hunt 
ally damaged. Still reeling from their time beneath their the Lost like animals to harvest Glamour or other fae re-
Keeper’s boot (sometimes quite literally) and whatever ar- sources from them. 
duous journey their escape led them upon, a newly found Because of these dangers, some freeholds eschew tra-
changeling is often like a wild beast — a danger to them- dition, adopting rather terse forms of screening new ar-
selves and those around them, regardless of their intent. rivals, which at their extremes might involve incarcera-
Because of this, freeholds often implement an observe- tion, interrogation, and even dream scanning. Those who 
and-protect policy initially, watching over newly discov- pass the screenings are treated to traditional hospitality, 
ered Lost from a relatively safe distance, while moving to while those who don’t may well find themselves under the 
intercept any dangers they may find themselves in. After thumbs of some of the freehold’s less savory members. 
initial reports as to the attitude, capabilities, and observ- While they may downplay these practices, keeping them 
able motivations have been gone over, the freehold will hidden from the general populace, freeholds that practice 
select appropriate individuals to initiate first contact with such screenings believe that when dealing with the broad 
the new changeling. The exact nature of that contact may spectrum of dangers new Lost can bring to a community, 
vary wildly. A mostly harmless newcomer from a civilized the end justifies the means.
freehold might be approached through a casual encounter 

The Return 79



Membership Chances are, when a freehold first approaches you, 
After their initial period of hospitality, changelings representatives of the various courts try to recruit you. 

who pose no obvious threats are usually offered the op- Joining a court requires a pledge, and ties you on a deep 
portunity to join the freehold by swearing a pledge. While and magical level to the elements of that season. It makes 
the specifics may vary, at the very least, the would-be it easier for you to connect with the Contracts associated 
freehold member promises to protect the freehold and its with the season, and if you truly embrace the spirit of your 
members from the True Fae and their allies, and not to court, that connection manifests in the form of a Mantle 
work for or with those enemies. In exchange, the free- — a supernatural expression of your affiliation, which you 
hold offers the changeling some level of protection and can use to aid you in various fashions.
support. In some locations, this is as far as the bargain One of the ways the seasonal courts help protect Lost 
goes. In others, more is asked for — donations of Glamour from the True Fae is to rotate power and leadership. As 
to the ruling leader, obedience to the freehold’s rules, or the seasons change in the natural world, the court aligned 
even adherence to any order the current leader decrees. with the season also hands off power to the next, ensur-
And, in return, such demands are balanced by additional ing no one group gains too much power over the others in 
benefits to the members of the freehold — goods and gear, the freehold. This idea — voluntarily giving over power 
social standing, or supplementary protections. to your peers — is so anathema and alien to the True 

Breaking a freehold oath is a serious matter, espe- Fae, who have been masters of their own domains for mil-
cially if done by knowingly collaborating with the True lennia, that the very act of following it provides a prac-
Fae and their minions. Exile is the least such a traitor can tical “disguise” from their eyes for a freehold’s relatively 
expect. Most oaths will bring down the might of the Wyrd large population. Failing to trade the throne when the 
against those who betray their fellow Lost after promising time comes is the sort of power play a True Fae would 
not to, although if the freehold catches up with them be- understand on an innate basis, and thus is more likely to 
fore the Wyrd can, there may not be much left to punish. draw their attention. The threat of this is enough to keep 

all but the most fanatical of tyrants willing to hand off 
Courts power, at least nominally, although it is not unheard of for 

corrupt Lost to attempt to find ways around this prohibi-
One of the strongest motivations shared by the Lost tion — often to the detriment of themselves and their 

is their all-consuming desire not to return to captivity un- fellow freehold members.
der their Keepers. When the first Lost escaped from their 
durances, no freeholds gathered to protect them, no more Motleys
experienced changelings to teach them. Touched by the 
True Fae, they were too strange to integrate themselves In a world where Lost have learned that trust is hard 
back into their home villages and holdings, so most spent to come by, even among their own kind, creating bonds 
what remained of their short and sorry lives in constant of not only trust, but of genuine concern and affection, is 
fear of their Keepers at their heels. often paramount to maintaining some semblance of Clar-

ity. And while being a part of a freehold can provide a 
In time, however, as more Lost escaped, those few general sense of community, a role within the courts, or 

who had survived long enough began watching out for even a seat on the throne, it is within a motley that you’re 
and mentoring newer arrivals. However, any congrega- most likely to find what many have given up hope of — 
tion of changelings proved to be a prime target for the camaraderie, true friendship, and sometimes even love.
True Fae, and something had to be done to keep their 
now growing numbers from being re-abducted as quickly A motley is a group of changelings who form a bond 
as they emerged. together, one that most often is reinforced by a pledge. 

Most motley pledges follow a fairly standard format, al-
Changelings have many courts, many ways to band though motleys with a particular purpose — defending 

together to defend their homes against the Fae. They have a certain neighborhood in a city, running a business to-
courts of Dawn and Dusk, of White and Red Roses, of gether, or simply being a surrogate family for one another 
the Land and the Sea. Some of these courts have Bar- — may well customize the terms of their oath to support 
gains, mystical agreements that limit the ways in which and promote those goals.
the True Fae can attack them. The most common of these 
bargained courts are the Courts of the Four Seasons. Trust is paramount in any motley, although yours might 

resemble a haphazard family while another might take more 
Each season — Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Win- after a violent street gang. Regardless of how outsiders view 

ter — offered early changelings different ways to avoid them, members of a motley know they can rely on one an-
their Keepers’ notice, and these tactics became integral to other above all else. Because of this, motley pledges almost 
those changelings’ way of life. In seasonal court freeholds, always contain clauses forbidding you and the other members 
each quarter year is ruled over by a monarch of the ap- of the group from harming each other — sometimes even at 
propriate seasonal court. 

80 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



the cost of injury or death. Other parts of the pledge may ban Mask and Mien
you from certain behaviors the group finds abhorrent, while 
offering benefits that foster and support your group’s goals: To themselves and each other, the scars a changeling 
charisma and social maneuverability for courtier motleys, for bears from their Keeper’s fae attentions are more than just 
example, or increased stealth for a pack of scouts. Regardless psychological. You wear them every day on your skin as 
of the terms, your motley is likely the most stable and trusted well as your soul, and while some are subtler than oth-
part of your life after your durance — and woe be it to any ers, no Lost remains wholly untouched. While leaving 
who try to break it apart. Arcadia stripped away the more dramatic of your Keeper’s 

“gifts,” every time you look in the mirror, it reminds you 
That’s not to say life within a motley is always smooth that the durance left its mark upon you forever.

sailing, of course. Especially for those who once lost their 
ability to trust and re-extended tenuous bonds to others, Once
closeness breeds fertile soil for an entire host of potential In their own demesne, a True Fae is capable of warp-
intra-motley issues. Simple arguments and miscommuni- ing almost any aspect of reality to suit their whim. Weath-
cations can fester if your group is not extremely careful er, time — even the basic laws of the natural world that 
to maintain open communications with each other at all humans are accustomed to being static and immutable — 
times. Any collective group tends to develop a leader or all give way before the power of a True Fae in their own 
leaders to help make decisions and hone the group’s focus. realm. And, as those abducted by them are quick to find 
You might plan, vote on the leadership, or build a pro- out, humans are far from immune to that might.
cess for choosing a leader into your group’s inception, but 
even within a motley planned to be egalitarian, dominant The Fae treat humans as raw materials. Interesting, 
personalities frequently rise to leadership roles and com- certainly, and often entertaining, but of no more concern 
mand. After a durance under the whim of their Keeper, than any other resource that required equivalent effort 
however, it is natural to balk at any perception of yoke or to obtain. Just as a cook would not hesitate to break eggs 
control, and even the most benevolent leader may find to make an omelet, or an artist sharpen a pencil to begin 
themselves facing a mutinous motley if they don’t use ex- sketching, people are merely potentials to the True Fae. 
treme caution in their demands on the group.  Valuable potentials, perhaps, and ones they may well go 

to monumental extremes to capture once an individual 
Envy and resentment of power can also grow quickly has drawn their attention — but potential, nonetheless. 

in an environment as tightly bound as a motley. Any per- Holding absolute power over their environs, Fae choose 
ceived favoritism, by the leader or other powerful or popu- not to truly empathize with those whose lives they usurp, 
lar figures in the freehold, can chafe at the rough edges of and thus feel no compunction whatsoever to maintain the 
your soul. Changelings are rarely the most stable of indi- essence or physical form of those over whom they have 
viduals, and something as simple as a perceived slight or assumed command.
potential insult can tear your group apart from within, if 
not carefully protected against. Changelings have as many stories of how their du-

rance changed them as there are durances — each is 
One of the greatest treasures to be found in a mot- unique depending upon the individual, their Keeper, and 

ley can also be one of the greatest dangers to it. As of- the part they play within that True Fae’s story. While it is 
ten happens within a tightly knit social group, crushes, possible for the Fae to drag a human into Arcadia solely 
infatuations, and relationships also often develop within to fulfill a role as a paving brick or drinking glass, simple 
motleys. And, while affection beyond the boundaries of manifestations of the Keeper’s magic could just as easily 
platonic friendship might bring members of your motley perform such mundane roles. Most often, the Gentry cast 
closer together, the course of love is rarely without bumps. humans in a particular aspect, either suited to their life 
Unrequited adoration, messy break ups, or outbreaks of before the durance, or — as Fae can be perverse and cruel 
jealousy can shatter your motley irreparably, leading to creatures — in stark contrast to it.
drama and trauma.

Perhaps the iconic example of a human being taken 
The end of a motley is rarely an amicable situation. to the lands of the Fae paints the human as a companion, 

While some do prepare for this eventuality, creating a courtesan, performer, or other form of entertainment for 
shorter-term oath to allow the membership dynamics to their master. Such a prisoner might find their looks altered 
change without causing too much turmoil, when anger, to better reflect their Keeper’s personal aesthetic prefer-
jealousy, or betrayal lead to the end of a motley, the re- ences — made skeletally thin, uncommonly fat, impos-
sults can be devastating. Human divorce courts may be sibly muscular, or so painfully beautiful the human heart 
messy, but at least they don’t normally involve supernatu- holds no defenses against it. Fae tastes are not necessar-
ral tempers, curses, and the potential for an angry former ily akin to those of humanity, however, so “ideal” might 
lover summoning their jilted spouse’s Keeper to exact just as easily involve extra limbs, bestial features, feathers, 
revenge. spines, or an utter lack of skin covering their musculature. 

The Return 81



For those who serve other roles, even less human forms Lord of Blood and Blades might perform nightly surgery 
are common. Legends tell of a True Fae who calls himself on his staff, with experiments that are as much about how 
The Nurseryman, who plucks children from their bed and, he makes the changes as they are about the end results. A 
still sleeping, plants them in his garden where they bloom dancer slave of the Observer might find they wake each 
into new and wondrous flowers every morning. The Veiled morning in their gilded cage, dressed down to their toe shoes 
Scholar collects those who have unique knowledge on what- and transformed physically to suit whatever role their master 
ever topic she is interested in at the moment, and transforms deems for that day’s act. The Philosopher of Pain might build 
her captives into living tomes, so they may tell her their sto- up their changeling staff’s endurance by infusing their food 
ries when she takes them from the shelf of her library-prison. and drink with strange compounds, while She Before Whom 
Whether a never-fading lamp to guide the Hermit’s path, All Beauty Bows might literally carve her minion out of a 
or the dragon steed that General Who Knows No Defeat fresh block of marble each day in whatever form pleases her. 
rides into battle, a changeling’s form during their durance is The possibilities are endless, and unfortunately for the Lost, 
a matter of their master’s whim rather than their own will. rarely pleasant to be the subject of.

Nor is that form set in stone. The True Fae are not 
known for their constancy — when your appearance is Now
subject to your Keeper’s mood, you may well find yourself Once out of the direct control of your Keeper, however, 
waking up as a winged angel one day, a rugged barbarian your body will remember — at least to some degree — who 
the next, and a giant spider creature on special occasions. and what you truly are. Perhaps it is the symbolic breaking 
You are, in the end, treated only as objects in a world with free from your Keeper’s leash, or the act of traveling through 
a single true subject, and the True Fae are no more con- the Hedge and out the other side, or maybe the True Fae 
cerned with your views on what form you are made to wear simply do not have enough power in the mortal realm to 
than a human would empathize with the feelings of their maintain their lockdown on their escaped servant’s form. 
wardrobe when choosing to wear one shirt versus another. Regardless of the reason, your physical form — and the way 

How exactly the Keeper goes about altering their ser- you appear to humans upon your return, which is a different 
vant’s form also varies drastically with the individual. The matter altogether — is less dramatic than that which was put 

upon you during your durance.

82 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



Mien scent as the lilacs and lilies growing in your beard. Hoof 
The form with which you emerge from the Hedge af- clicks will sound like normal footsteps to non-fae ears, 

ter your durance — your mien — is always at least roughly and even claws or horns will seem like normal nails or an 
humanoid, regardless of what you appeared to be before unmarred forehead if touched by human skin. This power 
or during your captivity. The vestiges of the durance are is so great that it holds even after you die; no matter how 
more than cosmetic; you really do have to comb your hair grotesquely unnatural your living form might be, you will 
around your horns, or cut holes in all your t-shirts for your leave behind a mundane-looking corpse.
wings. And if you’re a living torch, you might want to be 
careful when you stop for gas. Contracts

While much of your mien is tied to your durance, While the juxtaposition of the mundane and the 
you’re not locked in the shape your Keeper forced you magical that changelings experience upon the end of 
into. Miens change with time and experience, and court their durance is inherently challenging, the fact that 
affiliations change them as well. Spring courtiers may find you’re now something slightly other than human can pro-
themselves surrounded by the scent of growing flowers, vide some of the tools necessary to deal with those chal-
discover vines and blossoms in their hair, or even notice lenges. Perhaps the broadest and most powerful new tools 
their footsteps leave behind patches of verdant grass. The available to you are the Contracts you can call upon. By 
temperature around Winter courtiers often drops signifi- tapping into ancient pacts that ancient Fae made with the 
cantly (and raises around those of the Summer Court). world around them, your Keeper and its kind can alter 
Autumn courtiers may find their eyes grow hollow or glow themselves, humans, animals, their surroundings — and 
from within like a jack-o-lantern, or they leave a trail of at their most powerful — the nature of reality itself. As 
fallen leaves in their wake. The influences are widely var- their former servant, you have access to many of the same 
ied, and the effects only increase as your court’s Mantle Contracts. While you may not shift the very laws of real-
— how closely you embody the court’s ideals — grows. ity with them, masterfully wielded Contracts can make 

you more powerful — and dangerous — than human 
How strong your connection to the Wyrd becomes minds could ever imagine.

also influences your mien. As a newly escaped change-
ling, you may bear tiny stubs of horns, miniature claws, a Once
barrel chest, or slight stature. As the Wyrd grows stron-
ger within you, however, your horns may gradually unfurl While in Arcadia, it quickly became obvious that the 
into mighty antlers, or your claws lengthen into razor- laws of the world you grew up in no longer applied. But 
sharp daggers. A stocky form may become literally barrel that didn’t mean no rules applied. Even in the most cha-
shaped, and a slim one turn truly skeletal if your Wyrd is otic Fae demesne, some order reigns. The True Fae may 
extreme enough. be masters of their own domains, but they are bound by 

their own dictum, by the truths they acknowledge to be 
Changelings see their own mien when they look true, and by the power of the pacts they have sworn back 

at themselves, and (barring the use of magic) see other through the eons. Although the details are lost in the 
changelings’ miens when they look at their fellows. With fogs of antiquity, legends clearly connect the Fair Folk’s 
visages that vary from ethereal to macabre, gatherings of current powers directly to the age-old promises sworn 
the Lost are visually diverse beyond mortal kenning — at between the earliest of their kind and the world. And, 
least, to those who can see the truth. ancient though they may be, these agreements are still as 
Mask binding as they are powerful.

As their minion, tool, or plaything, some modicum of 
But the majority of the mortal world believes Lost and these Contracts applied to you as well. After all, of what 

their ilk to be fairy tales for a reason. Your true visage, if use to an arcane being is a spy limited by mortal senses, 
not your true nature, is hidden from mortal eyes by means and how quickly would they grow tired of a plaything 
of a Glamour illusion — the Mask. To humans — and most incapable of supernal dexterity? It served your master or 
other creatures — Lost appear to be normal people. The mistress well that you were more than human, and thus, 
flame-maned beauty might be noted for her glorious hair during your durance, they extended some of these powers 
color, or the dwarf with the strength of an ox appear as to you. And, for all that your powers during your impris-
burlier than the average fellow, but the Mask ensures that, onment were subject to the whims of your Keeper, receiv-
to outsiders, fae forms do not appear to be supernatural. ing them triggered something within you, changed your 

Sight is not the only sense the Mask affects. While very nature so you would never be quite human again, and 
your human paramour may believe that her flower-bear- connected you on a deep and immutable level with those 
ing fae lover smells delightful, she will not recognize your ancient agreements.

The Return 83



Now fueling their nigh-omnipotent powers within Arcadia and 
Immediately upon your return, you may well have offering escaped changelings a semi-stable source of abili-

found that you were no longer capable of doing all you ties after their durance.
could on the other side of the Hedge. Your connection But these already sworn deals are not the only means 
with the pacts woven by your Keeper is weaker here out- by which the words of oaths hold supernal power. By in-
side the kingdoms they control, and no longer fostered by vesting your own Glamour into an oath, you can craft 
your servitude to the Good Cousins. You once might have pledges that magically bind those involved in them. Care-
been able to change shapes at a whim, truly becoming fully spun, pledges can offer a wellspring of power to those 
a bird on the wing or a fish in the sea by virtue of your abide to their tenets — or a world of pain to those who 
master’s connection to the True Fae’s complex and all- treat them lightly.
encompassing pacts with the essential nature of Bird or 
Fish. On your own, however, you may be only capable of Once
altering your voice or mimicking a human’s visage — sin- Before your escape — possibly even before your du-
gle-line elements from a miles-long series of fae Contracts. rance — you likely discovered that the power of sworn 
Rather than being able to summon whatever otherworldly deals was far, far greater than humans believe. The True 
delights your Keeper’s whim demanded from its garden Fae are bound by their word — even their lies are partial 
instantly, as a part of their agreement with Fertility, now truths and unspoken information, rather than outright 
perhaps you can only speed a fruit to ripening, or stop falsehoods. A Keeper might fail to point out a loophole in 
someone from becoming pregnant. Weaker connections a contract, or abide only by the razor-sharp fine points of 
yield weaker results, but also allow a modicum of human a deal, but to outright break a sworn promise is anathema 
ingenuity and a greater sense of free will and choice than to them. Many cannot even understand humanity’s ability 
the True Fae typically demonstrate. to do so with ease.

Weak is not absent, however, and every changeling Often, humans make promises — or what is close 
returns from their durance with some vestigial connec- enough to be considered a promise by the Wyrd — with-
tion to the contracts of their servitude. You find, here on out thinking twice. We put forth our plans, preferences, 
the other side of the Hedge, that it requires more energy hopes, and fears as statements of fact: “I will be there by 9.” 
to do what you used to do effortlessly. While in Arcadia, “The Yankees will win or I’ll eat my hat.” “I’ll be damned 
your Keeper’s fae nature fueled your Contracts, and your if she isn’t the prettiest thing I’ve ever seen.” But, looked 
works on their behalf tapped into that surfeit of power. at literally, many of our statements are promises…they’re 
Now, you’re essentially on your own, and while Contracts just promises other humans don’t expect us to keep. Or, 
may have ways to circumvent paying in Glamour, most at the very least, breaking such a promise has little impact 
require at least a small effort. on how other humans see or treat us. 

Your powers here may begin so weak as to make you To the oath-focused Fae, however, word given is a 
feel crippled. Like you are missing a part of yourself. But deal struck. It may well have been the power of a lightly 
as time passes, you will learn. No longer limited by the given promise that led to your captivity. Ignorance of the 
powers your Keeper saw fit to share with you, you are now power behind a pledge is no excuse for not abiding by it, 
capable of extending your own will into the ancient pacts at least not in the ethereal eyes of the Wyrd, and words 
with the world around you. As a changeling, you can fo- as simple as “I’d follow you anywhere” or “For you? Any-
cus on fleshing out the Contracts that come most natural- thing.” have found more than one unwary human bound 
ly to you, perhaps even eventually achieving power akin to a path they’d never intended.
to that your former Keeper wielded. Or, freed from their Even promises no fae creature had a hand in can 
influence, you may take the reins into your own hands. carry weight beyond words. Someone you left behind 
Although fraught with challenges, what you endured also when you vanished into Faerie might have kept a vow you 
opened up almost limitless potential to you. By tapping made together, even while you left your end to dangle list-
into these primeval deals between the Fae and the world lessly in your absence. That vow calls to them, lifting the 
around them, you can expand your horizons, making veil to show them things aren’t what they seem, pulling 
yourself into what you dream of being, regardless of what them into the Hedge to find you. If they come back out 
you were originally created to serve as. again, they might find themselves fae-touched — mortal, 

Pledges but connected to you through a bond the Wyrd now rec-
ognizes and enforces as surely as any other, graced with 

Promises have power, especially among the Fae. some small glimpse of what it is to be fae.
Centuries in the past — millennia perhaps — they made During your durance, you may well have been bound 
bargains with the world around them that still hold true, as strongly by your perceived promises as by any bars or 

84 Chapter Two: More Things in Heaven and Earth



chains. However, this constriction is not without ben- not only by their Keepers, but by the nature of the world 
efit; while experts at crafting pledges, the Fae are bound itself; by the blindness of their parents who taught them 
to their word just as strongly as they bind others. Most fairies were the stuff of folklore, and by everyone and every-
changelings learn these lessons quickly, coming to watch thing that led up to the mind-breaking reveal. Considering 
their words (and those of the beings around them), and everything the Lost have endured, it’s more surprising that 
utilize the unyielding nature of the Fae’s own oaths against they don’t require pledges from every single individual they 
them. For many Lost, promises made in Arcadia may well interact with, than that they do rely on them so heavily.
have kept them from suffering even crueler durances than Pledges also offer the Lost a sense of control, some-
they otherwise would, and for some, a carefully worded thing that many have had stripped from them during 
oath with their Keeper eventually gave them the means their durance. Knowing that the promises sealed with 
to escape. At the very least, the Lost inevitably learn to Wyrd will be supernaturally upheld, not by them, but by 
respect (and fear) the power of pledges from their Keepers, the inherent (and seemingly limitless) power of the Wyrd 
and they carry this caution back with them — a potent itself gives even the most broken changeling a sense of 
tool when they return through the Hedge. empowerment. Even when dealing with those who can’t 

Now be trusted, knowing the Wyrd itself will enact punish-
ment upon oathbreakers allows the Lost to interact with a 

After enduring their durances, it’s not surprising that world that has previously betrayed them. It’s not surpris-
many Lost develop trust issues. If one individual’s betray- ing, then, that some changelings use the power of pledges 
al makes it difficult to know what’s safe and what’s not, in ways many would consider unethical. Mimicking their 
imagine discovering that your entire worldview is based Keeper’s propensity to utilize the power of a bound prom-
on false premises. Finding out that supernatural crea- ise, even if the other party isn’t completely aware of what 
tures, magic, and alternate realities not only exist, but they’re agreeing to, has to be tempting for someone who 
that you’re right in the middle of them? That’s enough to has ended up on the short end of the stick more times 
shake anyone’s confidence, not only in the world around than not. 
them but also in their own perceptions and instincts. Luckily, however, most changelings utilize pledges 

Pledges are one of the tools that allow changelings to and their power as the foundation upon which they can 
start to rebuild that confidence, to begin to trust something form relationships, buttressing tenuous trust with the aug-
in the world. By swearing oaths, be it non-aggression pacts, mentation of supernatural bonds. It is this ability that al-
fealty pledges, or motley bonds, the Lost can extend at least lows them to interact with each other, despite what they 
a modicum of trust, despite their past experiences. Through have endured, and thus not be doomed to spend the rest 
them, they can begin to work with others who, like them- of their lifetimes in paranoid solitude.
selves, have been abused and fooled, tricked, and deceived 

The Return 85



Part III

Michael
“Pop art is about liking things, June. Why can’t you just like things?”
She threw a decorative museum-store pillow at me. “Warhol was just dodging. I think he liked try-

ing to get interviewers to put words in his mouth. Like it was more fun for them to invent an opinion for 
him.” The cashier rolled her eyes and pointedly looked at the pillow lying on the ground. I picked it up 
and pretended to be fascinated by the certificate of authenticity. Hand-crafted, disenfranchised women, 
traditional techniques, something something organic. We both knew I wasn’t going to buy it, but now it 
was my responsibility to put away. 

“Look, can we go home yet? It’s Peter’s turn to make dinner, and he’s the only one of us who can 
actually cook. I want to know what culinary treasures await us if we make it back on time.”

“God, you’re like a baby bird, Michael. Constantly hungry, helpless at taking care of yourself.” 
I ruffled my feathers slightly. “I can cook, I’m just not an Artist. Besides, Wendy puts him in charge 

when she’s going to be busy. If he’s the leader of our band of lost children, I feel like it’s my duty to act 
like a misfit child. Keep his spirits up in these times of strife. So go brandish your art-nerd discount and 
buy that watercolor set already. We’ll miss the bus and then I’ll miss dinner and I’ll make you crazy 
whining about the shitty pizza we’re going to wind up eating instead.”

“Use your powers of prescience to figure out if it’s stopped raining, I’m almost done.”
By almost done she meant chatting up the cashier I guess, but I could look starving and pathetic just 

as well while splayed across the glass door leading out to the street. It was rattling a little in the wind. 
The rain had abated enough to merely be pelting the sidewalk, rather than cracking against it hard enough 
to pit the surface. The bus would be moving slowly enough that we might still catch it, but we’d get 
soaked on the way there. 

Then June started twirling her hair at the cashier, and I started hauling her to the door. “June, it’s 
pouring, we need to go now.” Far in the distance I could hear thunder rolling, and the lights dimmed for 
a moment.

She dug in her heels, pulling away. “If it’s raining that hard, we should just stay. Maybe Wendy could 
pick us up later.” Then, whispering, “I am so close, Michael. She is definitely maybe going to give me her 
number. And you are spoiling it.”

The cashier coughed delicately. “We’re closing in a few minutes anyway, you should probably try to 
catch that bus.” And then June expired, dropping to the gift-shop floor muttering incoherent apologies, and 
I had to drag her lifeless corpse out into the rain. 

The neon was melting down to the sidewalk. We splashed through puddles of light and stood in the 
wet reflections of stoplights and didn’t speak. It was a little like the old times, where it was all we could 
do to keep ahead of Her and Her maidens. Quiet, quiet, flying when we could and running when we had 



to, sleeping under roots and in the lees of stones. My eyes always flicker a little when I’m remembering. 
It’s like the Hedge wraps over what’s actually in front of me, covering the world, but also filling it in. Ev-
erything feels a little more real when it’s full of forest. Everything looks a little less real when it’s covered 
by forest.

Which is how it came to be that we ran directly into the bus we were supposed to be catching. It was 
a different driver than before, slow to meet our eyes, hardly seeming to notice the water we tracked in. 
The rain beat down on the roof of the empty bus, and we huddled together, shivering in the forced air. 
Maybe I dozed a little, because June was anxiously pulling my feathers and had given up whispering for 
chirping. The bus was still empty. The driver still wasn’t looking at us. I didn’t recognize the dirty road 
we were traveling down, but I did recognize that copse of trees.

Function could follow story here. Pulling the cord might stop the bus, but that might also make it dis-
solve into foam, or take on new ghostly passengers, or the driver might finally open his eyes. Of all of us, 
Robin might have remembered best how to tell the dreamers from the ogres, and Summer would have seen 
through the trick. June and I would just need to make do. I touched the cord lightly at first, and felt the 
driver shudder through the floor of the bus. Then we joined hands, pulled it hard, and ran for the back of 
the bus. The driver howled, and the bus flexed along with his body. A giant, black-eyed mare unfurled its 
hooves and shook the glass from its faces.

We stumbled in the waves of water slowly cascading down its body, washing over each face, catching 
in the valleys under each eye. We slid down its sleek legs, and June flung her pressed watercolor powder 
into the puddles at our feet, drawing powdery streaks into the straight bright lines cast by the neon sign at 
the receptionist’s window. Once we could hear sirens, never letting go, we jumped through the puddle, and 
fell straight through to a fire.

I choked on smoke and June screamed. I’d finally unpacked my bag yesterday. I’d thought we were 
finally safe. Wendy had found us, and months later she still hadn’t let us go. There was school most days, 
and Mandarin lessons after, and only chores when they needed to be done. June and Summer were paint-
ing together. I was teaching Robin to read. Peter still held us when we woke up shivering. I only just got a 
home. I’m not ready to be finished.

The second night after she rescued us — when the cold hadn’t quite left my bones, when I still wasn’t 
used to my new name — I asked Wendy why. She said she didn’t even think, when she found us hiding in 
the bog. Didn’t stop to justify it to herself, to explain why she should run or come closer. She just knew 
that she had to pick us up and take us home. Peter didn’t leave us, even when he knew he couldn’t protect 
us anymore. Wendy didn’t leave us, even when she found out what we were. I can’t leave them, either. 

I rubbed at the smoke in my eyes and ran towards the fire, trusting June to follow. I didn’t even think.






Who looks outside, dreams; who looks inside, awakes.
Carl Jung

Changelings exist at once in two worlds. They stand complex, just a solid, archetypical idea. Think of how 
in the mists between the dreamlike magic of Faerie and you’d describe your favorite character from a book or 
the mortal world of shadows and glass. Ripped from the movie to a friend if you only had a couple of seconds to do 
lives they knew, they’ve become something neither human it. That’s a concept.
nor True Fae. They are Lost, but have found in themselves As you go through the character creation process, if 
something new to call their own. ever you run into a hurdle or hard choices, you can always 

C go back to your concept, and take the path that fits more 
haracter closely. For our example above, if you’re hard-pressed for 

Creation Merit choices, you might take Language, Library, Trained 
Observer, Encyclopedic Knowledge, or even Safe Place. 

The following steps take the basic idea of a character Those all evoke the feeling set forth by the concept.
and turn it into one of the Lost, defining her traits us- As well, choose three Aspirations. When choosing 
ing the game’s rules. In the end, we’ll know who she is, your character’s Aspirations, choose one or two that re-
and what she’s capable of. Then, we can explore her time flect her changeling existence. Does she want to become a 
outside Arcadia. Take a look at the character sheet in the leader within her freehold? Does she want to find an Icon? 
back of this book; it’s your map to exploring your Change- Then, choose at least one Aspiration pertaining to her 
ling character. associations with the mortal world. Is she trying to find 
Step One:  her fetch and destroy it? Does she have a still-living fam-

Character Concept ily with whom she is trying to reconnect? Some of these 
Aspirations should be short term: Aspirations that are 

At the first stage, come up with a rough idea of who simple to complete, that you could accomplish in a single 
you want to play. Who was she before she was taken? session. At least one should be something that may take 
What purpose did she serve in Arcadia? What was her a few sessions to complete, or even a full story arc. These 
durance like? How did she escape? Don’t worry too much long-term Aspirations help guide your character’s story 
about things like seeming or court at this step. Instead, and development over the course of a chronicle.
try to filter down the idea of your character into a single Aspirations are one of the most important ways you 
statement. “Secluded rare bookseller” is a concept. “Im- can earn Beats and Experiences (p. 94), which advance 
patient courier” could be another. It doesn’t need to be your character. More importantly, they’re clear statements 

Character Creation 89



to your Storyteller about the types of things you wish to Social. Similarly, prioritize these three categories. You do 
see happen to your character. It’s important that the Sto- not gain free dots for Skills. Your primary category gets 
ryteller take note of all the troupe’s Aspirations. This way, 11 dots, your secondary gets seven, and your tertiary gets 
she can add hooks in the chronicle to touch on something four. No Skill may start at higher than 5.
for everyone. When choosing Skills, think about your character’s 

Also, starting Aspirations are a great way to establish background. Was she an athlete before she was taken? 
motley relationships. For example, if a motley consists of Then she might have a few dots in Athletics and maybe 
two Summer Court characters, one may have the Aspi- some Brawl. Did he have an advanced degree in physics? 
ration “Become Summer King,” and another might have Then he might have several dots in Science and a few in 
“Become a knight within the Summer Court.” This helps Investigation. Did her True Fae master force her to per-
put motley dynamics into a loose perspective, and can form for it? She probably has a few dots in Expression and 
help chronicle momentum start strong. maybe some in Athletics and Socialize.

Lastly, Aspirations make for great fodder for quick 
and easy goals. Don’t be afraid to take at least one Aspi- Step Four:  
ration without immense challenge or risk. For example, Skill Specialties
“Find a safe place to sleep” isn’t an unreasonable goal, Skill dots represent training and experience with 
and it gives you something to do during the first session if a broad range of techniques and procedures. Skill Spe-
you’re struggling to find a place for your character. Look at cialties allow you to refine a few Skills, and show where 
easy Aspirations as story hooks. In play, try to involve the your character truly shines. You define your own Skill 
other players’ characters in accomplishing them. Specialties. They reflect a narrow focus and expertise in 

If you’re having trouble with Aspirations, revisit this a given Skill. For example, your character may have a 
stage once you’ve fleshed out the character some more. Drive Specialty in Severe Weather or a Science Specialty 
Often, one part of the character creation process will in Physics. 
stand out for a given character. These standout parts will Choose three Specialties. Again, use this as an op-
help you determine goals. portunity to better understand who your character is, and 

Step Two:  who she was prior to her capture and subsequent escape. 
A character with Socialize (Seduction) is wildly different 

Select Attributes than one with Socialize (Small Talk). Computer (Hacking) 
Attributes define the most basic elements of your says something completely different from Computer (IT).

character’s abilities. They define how fast, charismatic, In play, players tend to solve problems with the Skills 
and intelligent she is. Look to the three categories (Men- in which their characters are Specialized. The Storyteller 
tal, Physical, and Social), and prioritize which you think should expect this and work with it.
is the most important for your character. Then, determine 
which is second-most important. When selecting Attri- Step Five:  
butes, consider why your character’s True Fae captor may Add Lost Template
have taken him. What drew her attention? How did his 
time in Arcadia shape him? We have the basic aspects. Now to add the Glamour.

In your primary category, place five dots and split Seeming
them between the Attributes. In your secondary, place 
four. In your tertiary, place three. No Attribute may start A character’s seeming forms from what happened to 
at higher than 5. her in Arcadia, how she escaped it, and/or how she ap-

proaches the world now. This cannot change once play 
As you’ll see on your character sheet, your character starts. Look over the six seemings: the Beast, the Dark-

gets one free dot in each Attribute. A single dot represents ling, the Elemental, the Fairest, the Ogre, and the Wiz-
a deficient Attribute, something below average. Two dots ened, starting on p. 21.
represents the average of human ability. Three dots is above 
average, highly competent. Four dots is a remarkable speci- Seeming is more archetype than personality. While 
men, a rarity. Five dots is the pinnacle of human capability. the Contracts and kiths associated with the various 

seemings may influence behavior, any seeming could 
Step Three:  draw anyone. Playing to type is fun and helps guide char-

Select Skills acter choices, but challenging established norms can be 
fulfilling, too.

Next, you’ll select your character’s Skills. These have Your choice of seeming determines a Contract Re-
the same categories as Attributes: Mental, Physical, and galia with which your character has an affinity. As well, 

90 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



every seeming has three favored Attributes from either way for changelings to defend themselves. Your character 
Power, Finesse, or Resistance traits. Take an additional ultimately chooses her own court based on a variety of 
dot in one of these. This can only take an Attribute to personal decisions, and it may change during play. You 
five dots. may choose to start play without a court.

If you decide to start play as a courtier, your char-
Seeming Favored Attributes acter receives a free dot in the appropriate Mantle Merit 
Beast Resistance (p. 117) for her court.
Darkling Finesse Needle and Thread
Elemental Resistance

Choose a Needle and a Thread for your character. 
Fairest Power Whereas a mortal character has a Virtue and a Vice, a 
Ogre Power changeling character has a Needle and a Thread.
Wizened Finesse Changelings approach problems and deal with chal-

lenges and people as defined by their Needle. Needle is the 
Kith changeling’s true self that she uses as a shield against be-

A kith is a refinement of seeming, a transformation coming someone she is not. People see her Needle, they 
that alters the way a changeling’s seeming expresses itself. interact with her based on it, and it informs her actions.
If your character served a specific purpose in Arcadia or Thread is the motivation that keeps a changeling 
dedicated herself to a singular method of coping, that task strong. This is the tie that binds her to reality. Thread 
molded her. Kith is the resulting transformation; a char- combines her innermost fears, desires, and needs that 
acter of any seeming can belong to any kith. drive her forward and keep her grounded. When every-

For example, if her Keeper made her into a torch to thing goes wrong, and she’s only just hanging on, Thread 
light the way, she might have the Bright One kith. If she is what reminds a changeling how she overcame the vul-
then escaped by dousing her light and moving as smoke, she nerability Arcadia forced upon her.
could end up a Darkling who lures people off the beaten path For each of these traits, choose an archetype from the 
with a will-o’-the-wisp glow. However, if she escaped by fan- appropriate sample list below, or craft your own. This is a 
ning her flame until she was a roaring bonfire that reduced simple statement of identity and motivation. 
her Keeper’s palace to ashes, she could end up an Elemen- You can find more on Needle and Thread on p. 95.
tal instead. Likewise, a changeling who became a Beast by 
roaming Arcadia’s wild woods might fall naturally into the Needle Archetypes Thread Archetypes
Hunterheart kith by the sheer necessity of dedication to sur- Bon Vivant Acceptance
vival, or might instead become a Playmate if she convinced 

Chess Master Anger 
a powerful traveler to let her be his loyal hound in exchange 
for protection from worse predators. Commander Family 

Composer Friendship 
Mien

Counselor Hate 
Your character’s time in Arcadia shapes her fae mien. 

Her captor molded her from a human into something Daredevil Honor 

strange and alien. Her seeming can help suggest her pur- Dynamo Joy 
pose while in captivity — or the other way around — Protector Love
but her mien is unique. No two Wizened look exactly the Provider Memory
same, even if they had similar tasks. Consider what your 
character’s role was, as well as how form inspires function. Scholar Revenge
Was she a tracker, with long ears and large eyes? Did she Storyteller
stand as a statue with marble skin and crystalline eyes? Teacher
These things inform what her mien looks like now. Se-
lect a few descriptive lines to describe how your character Traditionalist
looks inhuman without her Mask. Visionary

Court Touchstone
Courts are the changelings’ way of coping with the Your character’s Touchstone is a person, place, or 

Fae. Courts represent strong emotions and the stages of thing that reminds her of how to trust, and helps her re-
grief that come after abuse, but also represent a practical adjust to life after her durance. Name a Touchstone, and 

Character Creation 91



count a number of Clarity boxes from the left equal to All Lost start play with a free dot of Wyrd. You may 
your character’s Composure + 1. Write your Touchstone purchase one or two additional dots for five or 10 of your 
next to that box. See p. 98 for more on Touchstones. If 10 starting Merit dots, respectively.
you choose to take the Touchstone Merit, you may start You can find more on Wyrd on p. 100.
with additional Touchstones.

Contracts Step Six: Merits
Choose 10 dots’ worth of Merits. The Lost may pos-

Contracts represent agreements made in the past be- sess any of the Merits from the Chronicles of Darkness 
tween the True Fae and the natural world. A changeling core rulebook, except for those on the Supernatural Mer-
can take advantage of Contracts he is familiar with, or its list, Vice-Ridden, and Virtuous (since changelings do 
has learned about. These bargains allow the changeling to not have Virtue and Vice traits). As well, consult the ex-
defy the natural laws which normally bind a person, from tensive list of Lost-specific Merits on p. 111.
being able to eat any substance regardless of hardness to 
disappearing in an ephemeral cloud of smoke. Step Seven: 

Contracts have a variety of effects grouped into com- Determine Advantages
mon themes called Regalia, such as Crown for leadership, 
or Mirror for perception. Most Contracts are freely acces- All characters have certain advantages, some of 
sible to all changelings, but each seeming has a particular which depend on their Attributes, Skills, and Merits. De-
affinity for one Regalia, and you choose a second favored termine the following advantages with the given calcula-
Regalia for your character as well. tions and note them on your character sheet. A specific 

Your character begins with four Contracts chosen from Merit or Contract that modifies your character’s advan-
among Common Regalia, Common Court, and Goblin Con- tages will call that out in its text.
tracts; she must meet the proper requirements to take Court •	 Size: Characters start at Size 5.
Contracts, see p. 150. Two of those starting Contracts must 
come from the character’s favored Regalia. She also gains •	 Health: Size + Stamina 
two Royal Contracts from her court or favored Regalia.

•	 Speed: 5 + Strength + Dexterity
Wyrd

•	 Willpower: Resolve + Composure
Wyrd measures your character’s connection to the 

strange and fantastical world of Faerie. The higher it is, •	 Maximum Clarity: Wits + Composure
the more fae and strange she becomes; the lower it is, the 
more grounded she is in her human life. It determines how •	 Initiative: Dexterity + Composure
much Glamour the changeling may store, and how rapidly 
she can expend it. It affects certain Contracts, and her •	 Defense: (Lower of Wits or Dexterity) + Athletics
ability to contest supernatural powers. 

92 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Changeling Creation  
Quick Reference

Step One: Concept
Choose a concept. Come up with three Aspirations.

Step Two: Attributes
Prioritize categories. They receive 5/4/3 dots, distributed in any combination.

Step Three: Skills
Prioritize categories. They receive 11/7/4 dots, distributed in any combination.

Step Four: Skill Specialties
Choose three Skill Specialties.

Step Five: Add Lost Template
Choose seeming, kith (if any), court (if any), Needle, Thread, Touchstone(s),  

Wyrd, frailties (if any), a second favored Regalia, and Contracts. Describe fae mien.

Step Six: Add Merits
Select 10 dots of Merits, minus any spent on Wyrd. Characters in a court receive Mantle • for free.

Step Seven: Advantages
Willpower is equal to Resolve + Composure.  Maximum Clarity is Wits + Composure.  

Size is 5. Defense is the lower of Dexterity and Wits, plus Athletics. Health is Size + Stamina.  
Speed is 5 + Strength + Dexterity. Initiative Modifier is Dexterity + Composure.

Experienced Lost Beast: Savage survivalists, passionate and deadly. 
(Steed Regalia)

Storytellers may allow players to make more experi-
enced characters to start play. These bonus Experiences Darkling: Lurkers hiding in the shadows, silent but 
allow characters to start beyond the basic level. ever watchful. (Mirror Regalia)

Elemental: Unbridled and unchained, the true forces 
Rank Bonus Experiences of nature. (Sword Regalia)
Established in the Freehold 5 Fairest: Stately and elegant, forever loved and crav-
Rising Star 10 ing true connection. (Crown Regalia)

Squire 15 Ogre: Warriors and brutes, blunt and to the point. 
(Shield Regalia)

Knight 25
Wizened: Crafters and builders, weary but not jaded. 

Court Queen 35 (Jewels Regalia)
Faerie Legend 50
Timeless Fae 100 Kith

You may, if you like, choose a kith. See p. 51.
Lost Template

Court
Seeming Choose a court to which your character belongs.

Choose the seeming to which your changeling be- The Spring Court exults in life and harnesses desire 
longs and note its favored Regalia. to make life worth living.

93



Changeling Creation  
Quick Reference

(continued)
The Summer Court gathers strength and power Sword: The powers of violence and forthrightness.

to turn their wrath upon their enemies. Court Contracts
The Autumn Court utilizes a healthy fear to help Spring: Power over desire, growth, and rejuvena-

them prepare for attack. tion.
The Winter Court uses the pain of their sorrow Summer: Power over wrath, and the power to pro-

to strengthen themselves against further losses. duce heat and vigor.
The courtless walk their own paths, outsiders in Autumn: Power over fear, and the life and death 

a dangerous world. of growing things.

Wyrd Winter: Power over sorrow, and the power to con-
trol snow and ice.

Wyrd starts at 1. Additional dots may be pur-
chased with five Merit dots each. A maximum of two Goblin Contracts
Wyrd dots may be purchased this way. Tricky bargains with goblins who require debts to 

teach their powers.
Contracts

Experience Costs
Choose a second favored Regalia. Each charac-

ter starts with four Contracts from Common Regalia, Attribute: 4 Experiences per dot
Common Court, or Goblin Contracts, at least two of Merit: 1 Experience per dot
which must be in favored Regalia. Also choose two Skill Specialty: 1 Experience
Royal Contracts from court or favored Regalia.

Skill: 2 Experiences per dot
Arcadian Contracts

Common Regalia/Court Contracts: 3 Experiences
Crown: The ability to grab control and give direction.

Royal Regalia/Court Contracts: 4 Experiences
Jewels: The powers of perfection and lies.

Favored Regalia Common Contracts: 2 Experiences
Mirror: The ability to pierce all veils and trans-

form the self. Favored Regalia Royal Contracts: 3 Experiences

Shield: The powers of protection and healing. Goblin Contract: 2 Experiences

Steed: Power over all forms of movement and Out-of-seeming Contract benefit: 1 Experience
mindless beasts. Wyrd: 5 Experiences per dot

Lost Willpower dot: 1 Experience

Character  •	 Each Condition has criteria for resolution. Once 

A per scene, when resolving a Condition, take a Beat.
dvancement

•	 Some Conditions provide Beats for actions other 
A player earns Beats for his character in many ways than resolution.

(listed below). When your character has gained five Beats, 
they convert to one Experience, which you can use to de- •	 Any time you fail a roll, you may opt to make it a 
velop your character’s abilities. dramatic failure and take a Beat.

Beats •	 If your character surrenders in a fight, take a Beat.
You gain Beats whenever one of the following occurs: •	 If your character takes damage in one of her right-

•	 If your character fulfills an Aspiration, take a Beat. At most Health boxes, take a Beat. 
the end of the game session, replace the Aspiration.

94 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Anchors
Group Beats Changelings are creatures of magic. Each of the Lost 

has three anchors that ground her in the reality of the hu-
If the players and Storyteller wish, players man world. In addition to helping define her, anchors serve 
can “pool” Beats and thus divide Experiences as a source of Willpower. The Lost no longer understand 
accordingly. This means everyone advances Virtue and Vice, as the intensity of their durance and the 
at the same rate, but also means everyone’s fluidity of Arcadia have warped their sense of self. Their 
advancement is tied to everyone’s engage-
ment with the game systems. This can be both Needle, Thread, and Touchstones provide much-needed 
a boon and detriment to a shy or nonconfron- stability. These anchors help the changeling remember 
tational player; it can offer an incentive for be- that she is an individual, the protagonist of her own story, 
ing involved without the pressure to perform and no longer just set dressing in someone else’s. 
for advancement, but it can also incentivize Each anchor has two conditions for Willpower re-
not being involved, since his character contin- covery. The easier recovers a single Willpower point. The 
ues to advance without engagement. Weigh harsher refreshes all Willpower. A character may only re-
the options, and make the best collective deci- fresh all her Willpower using an anchor once per chapter. 
sion for your troupe of players. For the single Willpower option, err on the side of allow-

ing the point. For the full refresh, use the risk of death or 
Beats and  capture, breaking points, and markedly dramatic scenes 

Storyteller  as benchmarks for qualifying moments. 
Characters Like Aspirations, anchors are not supernatural traits. 

They’re a narrative mechanic that helps us portray Lost 
The Storyteller doesn’t earn Beats. Whenever psychology.
a Storyteller character does something that 
would earn her a Beat, such as resolve a Con-
dition or fulfill an Aspiration, she instead gains Needle
a Willpower point that vanishes at the end of Needle is the core identity the changeling presents 
the current scene if she doesn’t use it. to the world. This is her assumed personality and way 

of approaching her everyday life. In Arcadia, she had a 
mandate, a singular driving need to fulfill whatever her 
captor required of her. After her escape, it has been far 

•	 At the end of any game session, take a Beat. too long — even if it was only weeks, or days — since 
she’s exercised her own free will. The freedom to choose 

•	 Any time your character takes damage to her Clar- how to act, work, and process information is both heady 
ity (p. 105), take a Beat. and daunting. 

•	 If your character involuntarily unleashes Bedlam The Needle helps the changeling cut through all 
(p. 110), take a Beat. that. It provides a framework for her actions. It defines 

how she does things, how she approaches issues, and how 
Some other situations might grant Beats as well. she solves her problems. She uses her Needle as an instru-

Contracts ment to shape her will, and give it focus and precision.
Any time a changeling overcomes a small hurdle to 

Learning a Contract takes Experiences. Common affirm her Needle, she regains a point of Willpower. When 
Regalia and Court Contracts cost 3 Experiences each, or committing existentially risky or terrible acts to affirm her 
2 in favored Regalia. Royal Regalia and Court Contracts Needle, she regains all her spent Willpower points. 
cost 4 Experiences each, or 3 in favored Regalia. A Goblin 
Contract costs 2 Experiences. As well, acquiring any new Needle Archetypes
Contract requires the changeling to learn about it somehow, 
often through a teacher. The Lost may learn favored Regalia Here are a few sample archetypes for your character’s 
Contracts and Court Contracts without a teacher. All other Needle. Feel free to pull from this list, or come up with 
Contracts require someone, or something, to teach them. your own. Each includes a brief description, and sample 

actions that could recover Willpower.
Wyrd Note that the risks and costs listed should always be 

Five Experiences purchase a single dot of Wyrd. You meaningful. They should have value in the story, to count 
can read more on Wyrd on p. 100. This includes how a as Willpower recovery conditions. 
changeling might increase his Wyrd in play.

Anchors 95



Bon Vivant actions. He finds joy in nearly every situation, unless it is 
The bon vivant lives in the moment, taking pleasure patently boring. 

in whatever surrounds her. She is highly social and seeks Single Willpower: Take a risk that puts others in 
to evoke emotions with her actions. She is grounded in danger.
the now, and rarely thinks about her future. All Willpower: Take a risk that puts someone you 

Single Willpower: Allow a personal problem to go love in danger.
unfixed in favor of enjoying the moment.

Dynamo 
All Willpower: Abandon an important relationship 

over your pursuit of pleasure. The dynamo sees a problem and knows how to fix it. 
She is a fast reactor, which is great in an emergency, but 

Chess Master terrible for planning. She seeks to stay busy, hating down-
A chess master views the world as a set of endless time and hoping for a problem to present itself.

possibilities, with his hand on the rudder. He looks to- Single Willpower: Attempt to solve a problem before 
ward the future, calculating for every potential variable. you have all the information.
He maneuvers people like pieces on a board to make sure All Willpower: Hastily jump to conclusions, putting 
things go as planned. you or someone else into a dangerous situation.

Single Willpower: Manipulate someone into doing 
what you want. Protector

All Willpower: Bringing harm or misfortune to others The protector is steadfast and predictable. He is loyal to 
in the course of manipulating people into enacting your plans. a person, a group, or an ideal, devoting his time and energy 

to ensuring their comfort and safety. He works in a methodi-
Commander cal manner, never stopping until a task is finished.

The commander is goal oriented and a natural leader. Single Willpower: Ignore your own needs while act-
She seeks to bring stability to the world, often by getting ing to protect someone else.
those around her to help her with her projects. All Willpower: Miss the last opportunity to achieve 

Single Willpower: Convince someone to ignore their an important goal in favor of protecting someone else.
goals in favor of yours.

Provider
All Willpower: Put the good of the many above the 

good of the few, causing you to work against people you The provider is loyal and generous. She internal-
care about. izes her friends’ and family’s issues, and treats them as 

her own. She gives more than she takes, and is eager to 
Composer please.

The composer sees splendor in all things. He is spon- Single Willpower: Give up something you care about 
taneous and creative, seeking to capture the essence of because someone asks you to.
the beauty he finds in his daily life. All Willpower: Put yourself or someone you love at 

Single Willpower: Eschew traditional standards of risk in order to provide for someone else.
beauty regardless of any drawbacks doing so may incur.

Scholar
All Willpower: Embrace something vile, in an at-

tempt to espouse its beauty. The scholar observes and records everything around 
him, then strives to organize it into neat and orderly 

Counselor systems. He seeks understanding and looks for unifying 
The counselor seeks to help others. She doesn’t want themes, hoping to label whatever he doesn’t know.

to lead or follow, but instead to work as a comfortable Single Willpower: Interact with and handle the un-
companion, catapulting others to greatness. known.

Single Willpower: Put your own goals on hold in or- All Willpower: Traverse the Hedge or another un-
der to help someone else achieve theirs. earthly realm to categorize an unknown element.

All Willpower: Take full responsibility for another’s Storyteller
dangerous mistake.

The storyteller is a bastion of creativity, ideas, and 
Daredevil art. She injects humor and wit into everything she does, 

The daredevil is a thrill seeker. He runs headfirst and seeks to gain a greater understanding of the human 
into danger, and cares little for the consequences of his condition through story.

96 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Single Willpower: Tell a story that makes someone Thread Archetypes
look bad. Here are a few sample archetypes for Thread. Again, 

All Willpower: Tell a compromising story about an this is not an exhaustive list of all archetypes. More so 
important person, who then takes great offense or suffers than Needle, the motivation of Thread has endless possi-
consequences. bilities. As above, each archetype includes a brief descrip-
Teacher tion and sample actions that could recover Willpower.

The teacher acts in ways that help others learn les- Acceptance
sons. Not all actions must have meaning, but if others are Those motivated by acceptance desire others to need 
involved, he seeks to find meaning in order to teach. and want them. She wants to find her place in the world, 

Single Willpower: Give advice that someone uses to and for people to take her as she is. Feeling needed and 
succeed. wanted are the only things that keep her going.

All Willpower: Risk yourself in order to teach some- Single Willpower: Ignore personal problems to gain 
one else a lesson. someone’s favor.

Traditionalist All Willpower: Put yourself at risk to defend some-
one who needs you.

The traditionalist is unimaginative, traditional, and 
task-oriented. She uses the past to predict future action, Anger
and prefers structure. She is organized, predictable, and Those motivated by anger hold onto pain as a re-
easy to work with if you simply listen to her instruction. minder of the ways things could be. He is angry at the 

Single Willpower: Refuse to incorporate new ideas True Fae, angry at what happened to him, and he uses 
into a plan of action. that anger to ensure he gets through each day.

All Willpower: Refuse to accept help in dealing with Single Willpower: Start a fight with someone.
a dangerous situation. All Willpower: Start a fight with someone who is 
Visionary clearly your superior.

The visionary acts to challenge himself. He seeks Family
new and unique ways of doing the same mundane tasks, Those motivated by family have someone depending 
and can’t stand repetition. on them. Maybe it’s the family she left behind, or the one 

Single Willpower: Refuse to use the same method she created after she escaped. She cannot fail, because 
twice. they need her.

All Willpower: Put yourself in danger attempting a Single Willpower: Take a family member’s burden 
new method. upon yourself without expecting recompense.

Thread All Willpower: Put yourself at risk to provide for 
your family.

If the Needle is the instrument of the changeling’s Friendship
will, the Thread is the binding that holds a changeling to-
gether. It might be her darkest fear, her most deep-seated Those motivated by friendship use the strength of the 
desire, or her fondest memory. It motivates her and drives people around them to stay strong. He surrounds himself 
her forward. It reminds her to be strong when things look with people who make him feel loved and wanted, and 
the bleakest, and keeps her uplifted when reality shifts keeps them in mind when things get tough. He won’t let 
and warps beneath her. them down.

A Thread gives the Lost a sense of purpose, and a Single Willpower: Follow a friend into a situation 
reason to keep fighting. The life of a changeling is tu- that is clearly disadvantageous to you.
multuous at best, and her Thread is her lifeline to sta- All Willpower: Follow a friend into a deadly or dan-
bility and strength. It’s what she clings to when she has gerous situation.
nothing else. 

Hate
Anytime a changeling withdraws from others, puts 

herself at a disadvantage, or lashes out in pursuit of her Those motivated by hate have someone they despise. 
Thread, she regains a point of Willpower. When commit- Maybe it’s someone who treated her poorly, her captor, or 
ting terrible acts or risking Clarity damage in pursuit of just herself. She clings to her loathing like a lifeline, using 
her Thread, she regains all her spent Willpower points. it to remind her that she was once human.

Anchors 97



Single Willpower: Distance yourself from others in Single Willpower: Seek retaliation over moderation.
pursuit of your hatred. All Willpower: Abandon reason and logic to exact 

All Willpower: Abandon a group, organization, or revenge.
city in pursuit of your hatred.

Touchstones
Honor

A Touchstone is something from the human world 
Someone motivated by honor maintains a personal that helps keep your character grounded. It serves as a 

ethic. He has a code or some organization’s creed that he source of support and validation, helping maintain her 
clings to, using it to remind himself of what’s important. Clarity, and something that helps reconnect her to life 
He’ll do anything to maintain his honor. after her durance. The character’s Touchstone may be 

Single Willpower: Refuse to take an action that the very reason she escaped Arcadia, something impor-
would besmirch your honor. tant enough to her to cut through the Glamour that held 

All Willpower: Take the more dangerous path for her spellbound in her Keeper’s grasp. The Touchstone is 
fear of abandoning your code. something solid, a bastion of stability that helps her see 

the world’s beauty when others would call her “mad.” 
Joy Touchstones are almost always mortal in nature, or 

Those motivated by joy constantly seek the next born of the mortal world. They’re usually people, although 
high. She remembers what happiness felt like, and seeks it they can be places and sometimes deeply held ideologies 
out in everything she does. The promise of having happi- — there is no place like home, after all. When threat-
ness again keeps her going, and prevents her from giving ened, a Touchstone gives your character motivation be-
up hope. yond her own Thread. Its presence in her life helps her 

Single Willpower: Ignore another’s plight to main- regain a sense of normalcy and keeps her seeing clearly.
tain your happiness. A Touchstone reflects an intrinsic conflict for the 

All Willpower: Make others suffer so you don’t have changeling. It is the firm reality of a true personal tie, 
to. and keeps her from losing track of her own truth. It is 

both the most important thing in her life, and the most 
Love vulnerable part of her. When deciding on a Touchstone, 

Those motivated by love have someone they want consider how your character may potentially lose it. 
to come home to. It doesn’t have to be romantic, but he Think of how she protects it. Think of how she reacts 
cares deeply for the person and just the thought keeps when it’s threatened.
him strong. System: Touchstones help a changeling maintain Clar-

Single Willpower: Put yourself out for the pleasure ity by subtracting dice from Clarity damage rolls: −1 if she 
of someone you love. has one attached Touchstone, or −2 instead with multiple 

All Willpower: Put yourself in a deadly situation to attached Touchstones. See p. 105 for further details on Clar-
protect your love. ity damage. When a changeling has no Touchstones at-

tached, add two dice to Clarity damage rolls.
Memory Write Touchstones alongside your character’s Clarity 

Those motivated by memory seek something from track. Count boxes from the left equal to your character’s 
their past. Maybe it’s a place she wants to get back to, a Composure + 1, and write your first Touchstone next to 
friend she misses, or a long-lost family. Whatever it is, it’s that box. For instance, if your character has Composure 3, 
the one memory that remains strong even after the du- write the Touchstone next to the fourth box from the left. 
rance. She knows she can’t go back to it, but just having If you purchase more Composure in play, push her Touch-
it keeps her going. stones to the right so that her first one is always attached 

Single Willpower: Ignore a dangerous situation in at Composure + 1.
favor of recreating your memory. As Clarity is a fluid thing in a changeling’s life, her 

All Willpower: Deny reality in favor of immersing attachment to her Touchstones is also fluid. Consider a 
yourself in memory. Touchstone attached when its associated Clarity box is 

not filled with severe damage. If a Touchstone is attached, 
Revenge anytime the changeling defends her attachment to it, she 

Those motivated by revenge seek to retaliate against regains a Willpower point. If this defense causes her seri-
a wrong. Maybe it was done to him, maybe to someone he ous harm, she regains all her spent Willpower points. 
loved, but now the reason he keeps going is the knowledge When she heals a point of severe Clarity damage, 
that he can dish it all back out. she reattaches any Touchstone associated with that box. 

98 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



If the changeling loses a Touchstone altogether — for own using these as samples. Storytellers should remember 
example, if he dies — then she risks Clarity damage. If that Touchstones mark things important to their players’ 
she loses her last Touchstone, she gains the Delusional characters, and should treat them thus in the story.
Condition immediately. This applies whether or not the 
Touchstone was attached at the time. Regaining a lost or Best Friend
dead Touchstone requires resolving the Delusional Con- Your friend has never stopped supporting you through 
dition and forging a meaningful relationship with another all the bad times. He’s been there with you through it all, 
valid subject. even when you took that sudden vacation without telling 

Your character can gain additional Touchstones by tak- him. And now, he knows something is wrong, that things 
ing the Touchstone Merit (p. 120). Write the new Touchstone have changed, and you have a secret he shouldn’t know. 
in beside the next available box to the right of the rightmost Now he’s asking dangerous questions. 
box that already has an associated Touchstone. A change- Family
ling character cannot have more Touchstones than she has 
Clarity boxes to the right of the first box with an associated You came home. They missed you, they love you, and 
Touchstone. If her maximum Clarity increases in play by pur- they can’t understand you. It isn’t the same anymore, no 
chasing more Wits or recovering an Icon, it opens a spot for a matter how much you all pretend. They moved on while 
new Touchstone through the Merit. you were gone, and you can’t ever really return to what 

you had before.
Remember that additional Touchstones bought with 

the Touchstone Merit are subject to the Sanctity of Merits The Fetch
rule if lost (p. 111). He has your life. He’s blind to his own hollowness, 
Example Touchstones and so are the people you once called family. You want 

what he has, obsessed with watching him. Your family 
The following list of examples is meant only to help would never accept you as you are now, and they couldn’t 

you flesh out your character. Players should personalize stand to lose him. You should just live and let live. It isn’t 
their Touchstones, and feel free to come up with their his fault, is it?

Anchors 99



The Fling Your Old Home
When you came back, you wanted to live life to the It’s been so long since they took you that no one you 

fullest. You met him in a bar, you had sex in the men’s knew was alive when you got back. But that old house, 
room, and then you gave him your real number, on a the one you bought with your wife? It’s still there, right 
whim. He texts every now and then, looking for the easy down to the ugly paisley curtains she picked out. What’s 
D, and you respond, because no one else makes you feel as the harm of going in once in a while when no one else 
wanted as he does. is home?

Lost Love Wonders  
She was the last thing you thought of when the Gen-

try abducted you, and the first thing on your mind when and Terrors
you returned. You clawed your way through the Thorns Faerie magic wends its way into a changeling, sinking 
to return to her, but you’re afraid of what she might say. into her bones, molding her into its image. The durance 
Things weren’t the best before, and what if she never even is a nightmare and a dream, and the escape is pure relief 
realized you were gone? and terrifying volition. It’s a release into freedom, and the 

daily horrors of living in the world of humanity. But the 
The Occultist magic of Arcadia is not so easily discarded, and the Lost 

She pretends to know more than she does, but what have powers more akin to their True Fae captors than 
she does know can be quite dangerous. Maybe it’s a ritual they are comfortable admitting.
or two, maybe it’s enough knowledge to catch the atten-
tion of something from the Hedge. It’s your job to protect Wyrd
her from the entities she courts, but you find kinship in Wyrd reflects the amount of Faerie magic the change-
her curiosity about the magic that has become common- ling has tapped into, using its power as her own. Fae mag-
place in your life. ic transforms things, shapes, dreams, and concepts. This 
Private Investigator same magic now courses through every changeling’s body 

and soul. As she delves deeper into her magical nature, 
When you disappeared, your family hired her to find she remembers more of her time in Arcadia and can bet-

you. At first it was just a job, but then she followed the ter harness its terrible power.
trails, which all led to something weird and inexplicable. 
Then you came back, and now she won’t leave you alone, Wyrd affects numerous factors in gameplay, such as:
constantly asking you to confirm one theory or another. •	 Wyrd determines your character’s maximum traits. 

Normally, a character is limited to five dots in 
Therapist Skills and Attributes. However, at Wyrd 6+, your 

She reminds you of home, your mother, baked cookies, character can achieve higher Attribute and Skill 
and a warm hug. For her, it’s all professional; you are just ratings.
another patient she lovingly cares for. You want it to be more, 
you want to tell her the things you claim are dreams are the •	 Wyrd acts as a changeling’s Supernatural Potency, 
reality you lived. But somehow you know that she can’t take or “power trait,” and as her Supernatural Tolerance 
the hit to her sanity, and maybe you can’t either. trait, adding to the dice pool to contest some su-

pernatural powers.
True Love

You found it, true love. At least, that’s what you tell •	 Wyrd determines how much Glamour a changeling 
yourself. She understands you, and she has her own issues can possess at once, and how quickly she can spend 
that you understand. She is there for you no matter what. it. The chart notes maximum Glamour and how 
She listens, she holds you when you cry, and she doesn’t much she can spend in a turn at her Wyrd rating.
ask questions when you come home battered and bruised. •	 Wyrd determines how connected the changeling is 
She’s perfect. So why are you so bored? to Arcadia. Each dot of Wyrd acts as a dice bonus 
Your New Home to any fae creature’s attempts to track or find her, 

to a maximum of +5.
There’s really no place quite like it. This is the one 

place where you can feel safe, you can take off the mask •	 Wyrd determines the number and severity of frail-
(so to speak) and be yourself. It’s the place where you ties from which your character suffers.
are in charge, and even the threat of the True Fae seems 
lesser inside these walls. Now you know its exits into the •	 Wyrd reduces penalties from mundane illnesses (as 
Hedge, and your magic sits upon its foundation. from the Sick Tilt, p. 331) and fatigue, to a greater 

100 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



degree as it increases. This reduction becomes a 
dice bonus to rolls to resist mundane diseases out-
side action scenes. The uncanny permanence of Supernatural  
the Gentry infects changelings as well. Tolerance and  

•	 Wyrd determines how many goblin fruits a change- Potency
ling may carry into the mortal world. What do you do when an opponent lacks 
All changeling characters begin play with Wyrd 1. Wyrd? Many monsters in the Chronicles of 

You may purchase up to two additional Wyrd dots at char- Darkness have traits that define their defenses 
acter creation by spending five of your Merit dots each. against supernatural powers or the strength of 

those powers. These are called Supernatural 
After play begins, you may spend five Experiences per dot Tolerance and Supernatural Potency traits, re-
to increase Wyrd. spectively. For example, a vampire’s Tolerance 
Remembered Dreams and Potency are both defined by her Blood 

Potency trait, while a demon’s Tolerance is his 
As a changeling taps further into the magic of Faerie, Cover and his Potency is his Primum.

she is better at remembering her own dreams. Add her 
Wyrd in dice to all rolls made to remember or interpret her When a Changeling rule calls for Wyrd 

from a creature who does not possess it, 
dreams while she’s awake (but not to rolls that generate instead use that creature’s Tolerance (when 
oneiromancy successes; see p. 218). As her Wyrd rises, her contesting effects) or Potency (when forcing 
dreams of time in Arcadia grow in clarity and frequency. effects). Likewise, when a changeling does 
At Wyrd 1-3, she barely remembers her dreams, recalling something that calls for another Potency or 
only fragments. At higher Wyrd (4-6), she recalls some of Tolerance trait, use Wyrd.
these dreams with relative clarity. More powerful change-
lings (Wyrd 7-9) frequently dream of their time in Faerie 
and remember it clearly, as though watching it happen 
just outside arms’ reach. The paragons of fae power (Wyrd improving existing ones. For example, a changeling might 
10) dream often of Arcadia and remember it all so clearly, remember her time dueling on behalf of her Keeper and 
it’s like experiencing that time in person all over again. If so improve her Weaponry Skill with Experiences, or raise 
a changeling loses her last Touchstone, treat her as having Wyrd as she reconnects with her fae aspects.
+1 Wyrd for purposes of remembered dreams.

This is largely a roleplaying opportunity, giving play- Longevity
ers and Storytellers a chance to develop the character’s For all their slippery nature, fae creatures are more 
history and add new elements to her durance, or allow- permanent than mortals, and changelings are no excep-
ing the Storyteller to deliver cryptic omens. These dreams tion. For every dot of Wyrd a changeling possesses, her 
can also serve as justification for purchasing new traits or natural lifespan increases by approximately 20 years. 

Wyrd Effects
Disease/

Attribute/ Max Glamour/ Fatigue Penalty 
Wyrd Skill Max Per Turn Total Frailties Reduction Goblin Fruits
1 5 10/1 By one 3
2 5 11/2 One minor By one 7
3 5 12/3 By one 7
4 5 13/4 Two minor By two 13
5 5 15/5 By two 13
6 6 20/6 One major, two minor By two 13
7 7 25/7 By three 29
8 8 30/8 One major, three minor By three 29
9 9 50/10 By three 101
10 10 75/15 Two major, three minor By four Unlimited

Wonders and Terrors 101



Once she’s lived beyond a human lifetime, her mien shows escapes the situation, or stops touching the bane. Bane 
through her Mask more often. This is never enough to weapons at this level inflict aggravated damage. If the 
mark her out definitively as a supernatural creature, but bane kills the changeling, her entire body unravels in 
has a tendency to give her a reputation among observant spectacular fashion, exploding into thorns and leaves or 
neighborhood children. hundreds of torn gossamer wings.

Frailties The legends and lore that comprise old folktales and 
fairy tales provide many examples of possible frailties. 

Legend ascribes alien behaviors, aversions, and de- The goal is not to cripple the character but instead create 
sires to fae. The more powerful the fae being, the stranger interesting challenges that make for exciting roleplaying 
and more powerful its quirks and weaknesses. Change- opportunities. 
lings call these limitations frailties, and they come in two 
forms: taboos and banes. A taboo is either a compulsion or Cold Iron
a behavioral restriction. These occur in certain situations Legends tell that long ago, the Gentry broke a con-
unique to each changeling. A bane is a weakness similar tract with Iron. As a result, iron has ever been the bane 
to those many supernatural creatures possess, something of the fae. Some changelings theorize that instead, iron’s 
that can cause the changeling great harm. Banes cut in- mythic significance as it brought about industrial revolu-
stantly through all forms of armor and protective mag- tion (and a deathblow to the age of superstitions and leg-
ics, and damage suffered from a bane cannot heal until end) makes it anathema to creatures of dream and magic. 
the changeling escapes the bane’s presence. Even acting Changelings suffer the bite of iron as well, due to their fae 
against the source of a bane is difficult: Doing so requires heritage.
spending a point of Willpower per action, which does not Whatever its origin, iron ignores fae-born defenses 
add dice to the pool. Additionally, the character suffers and magic. A Contract, token, or other type of fae magic 
a three-die penalty on all rolls related to acting against that provides armor or enhanced Defense will not shield 
the cause of a minor frailty. This penalty increases to −5 a fae creature (including changelings) from iron weapons. 
when acting against a major frailty. Changelings can’t escape from iron bindings or enclo-

Minor Frailty: Minor frailties are difficult to manage sures via portaling. Iron is difficult to find in the modern 
but uncommon to encounter. Taboos require specific cir- day, outside of antique shops, old estates surrounded by 
cumstances, and banes are rare items or situations. Ex- wrought-iron fences, cast-iron skillets, and so on. What 
amples of minor taboos include an inability to approach exactly is iron? Does steel count? Conceptually, iron is 
a dwelling with milk set out at the door, a compulsion to what most people consider iron. Your average person 
count spilled rice grains, or an inability to step on lines. would perceive most swords, for example, as steel, but an 
Minor banes include touching wolfsbane, the sound of iron gate as definitely iron.
church bells or wind chimes, or hearing one’s name said So-called “cold iron” acts as a frailty bane for change-
backwards. A character can spend one Willpower point lings and True Fae. To qualify as “cold iron,” the metal 
to resist the behavior associated with a minor taboo for must be mostly pure iron and magic cannot play a role 
the rest of the scene. Exposure to a bane causes continu- in its creation in any way. It must be hand-forged, not 
ous lethal damage at a rate of one point per turn until mass-produced, cast, or created by a machine. Touching 
the bane is removed. A bane weapon inflicts lethal dam- this iron inflicts aggravated damage on the Gentry and 
age that cannot heal until the changeling has escaped the changelings. 
bane’s presence.

Changelings and other fae creatures can never have 
Major Frailty: At this level, frailties come to domi- magic that manipulates, creates, or destroys iron. Elemen-

nate some aspect of the changeling’s life. Taboos become tals may never favor iron as an element, and indeed, if 
major behavioral restrictions or compulsions that are they favor metals, iron is excluded from their purview. 
difficult to avoid, cropping up every day. Major banes This is a hard prohibition. When in doubt, Storytellers 
are common substances or situations, and rapidly prove should always favor iron piercing fae magic, or otherwise 
fatal to the changeling if touched or experienced. Ex- being immune to it. This limitation even applies to the 
amples include an inability to go outside while the moon basic advantages changeling characters possess; for ex-
(or sun) is in the sky, being forced to walk backwards ample, iron restraints make a changeling unable to escape 
or hop at all times, the sound of a child’s laughter, or automatically with Glamour.
touching glass. 

Overcoming a major taboo requires spending one Glamour
Willpower point per turn, or sacrificing one Willpower dot Glamour is the very essence of fae magic. It is an 
to do so for the rest of the scene. Major banes inflict one energy that infuses Arcadia, the True Fae, creatures of 
aggravated damage point per turn until the changeling the Hedge, Contracts, and changelings. Born of emotion, 

102 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Glamour gives shape to dreams and nightmares. As part Harvested characters lose a single point of Willpower, 
of their transformations, changelings learn how to tap reflecting a subtle loss of emotional intensity, and cannot 
into Glamour, to feed on it, and to fuel their magic with be harvested more than once per scene. Harvesting the 
it. At higher levels of power, they need it to survive just emotion favored by the changeling’s court grants an addi-
as the True Fae do, but even at lower levels, the Lost use tional point of Glamour on a successful roll. Changelings 
Glamour in a variety of ways. can’t harvest Glamour from animals; their emotions are 

Spend Glamour to: simply too far from human.

•	 Activate a Contract without utilizing a Loophole. Changelings can harvest Glamour from non-fae 
dreams as well. The most skilled dreamwalkers can move 

•	 Make shifts via oneiromancy or Hedgespinning. from dreaming mind to dreaming mind, absorbing Glam-
our from the visions they encounter. See p. 219 for more 

•	 Create or open a Hedge gateway. about using oneiromancy to harvest Glamour.
Certain objects and places in the Hedge are rife with 

•	 Strengthen or scour away the changeling’s Mask. Glamour. Typically, this takes the form of goblin fruits, 
•	 Enact Pledges. though rare pools of raw Glamour sometimes well up 

there. Eating certain Hedge beasts provides Glamour, but 
•	 Activate a kith blessing, or a seeming blessing in doing so risks perception-warping indigestion if not pre-

certain circumstances. pared correctly — and proper preparations are not always 
obvious. Strange artifacts and certain actions may also 

•	 See another changeling’s Mask. provide Glamour, such as singing in a forest of resonating 
glass, or dancing in a faerie ring.

•	 Escape confinement.

•	 Incite Bedlam. Suggested Modifiers

Some other actions may cost Glamour as well. Situation Modifier
Repetitive emotions, such as those −3

Harvesting Glamour associated with seeing friends and family
Harvesting Glamour is an intensely emotional expe- Rushed harvest −2

rience. Changelings feed on the power of sentiment and Repressed feelings −2
the essence of passion, drawing power from feelings. This 
is not necessarily a predatory act, although changelings Momentary emotion −1

can prey on victims in an act called reaping (see below). New emotions the target has never felt +2
While a changeling cannot harvest Glamour from any fae before
creatures (including other changelings, Hedge denizens, Strong, long-harbored emotions +2
or the True Fae), she may harvest from any other type of Spending a great deal of time with the +2
intelligent being with emotions, such as humans, ghosts, subject feeling the emotion
or vampires.

Powerful, deep-seated emotions +3
Changelings most frequently harvest Glamour di-

rectly from human emotions. The type of emotion doesn’t 
matter; the strength of the feeling is what creates Glam- Reaping
our. The changeling must be close enough to experience If harvesting is subtly drawing from the ambient 
the emotional reaction firsthand — she cannot harvest emotion around the changeling, reaping is the direct and 
Glamour from across the street, watching her target with forceful act of ripping emotions from a target, leaving him 
binoculars. She may incite the emotion herself, but this is a deadened husk.
not necessary for harvesting. Reaping does not require a roll, but causes a breaking 

In mechanical terms, to harvest Glamour for your point and requires touching the target. The victim loses 
changeling, roll a relevant Attribute + Skill. Each success one Willpower point per dot of your character’s Wyrd, and 
generates one Glamour. The action could be anything as- gains the Ravaged Condition (see p. 344). Your character 
sociated with how the changeling is harvesting the Glam- replenishes all lost Glamour. 
our, from acting to incite a strong emotion, to attempting The effects of this Condition aren’t inherently ob-
to stay calm as she lets a strong emotional reaction wash vious; it manifests like a severe lethargy, which may not 
over her. The roll may be modified by the relative fresh- even be evident for hours afterward. It could be mistaken 
ness of the emotion, the intensity of the emotion, or vari- for depression or exhaustion. Characters aware of the 
ous other factors (see below).

Wonders and Terrors 103



phenomenon, such as hunters and Huntsmen, may use she walked into the Hedge, sure she was opening a mun-
Wits + Occult actions or other reasonable rolls to under- dane door into a coffee shop. These things confound and 
stand the supernatural source of the effect. confuse the changeling, shaking her faith in her perceived 

reality.
Glamour Deprivation System: A changeling’s Clarity track has boxes equal 

A changeling who falls to 0 Glamour suffers from to her Wits + Composure. Her player can’t buy additional 
physical deprivation as though starving, as well as suffer- Clarity boxes with Experiences, but they increase auto-
ing the Deprived Condition (p. 336). No matter how much matically as she purchases dots of Wits and Composure, 
she eats or drinks, she cannot gain nourishment until she and she can recover Icons (p. 203) to add further boxes. 
possesses at least one point of Glamour. More powerful There is no upper limit to the number of Clarity boxes a 
changelings begin to starve at higher amounts of Glamour: character can have. In dreams, her Clarity contributes to 
Those with Wyrd 6+ suffer from this deprivation when her dream form’s Health track (p. 216).
their Glamour falls beneath their Wyrd rating. 

At high levels of Wyrd, changelings become physically Clarity Attacks  
and psychologically addicted to Glamour, and may gain and Breaking Points
the Glamour Addicted Condition (p. 339). Characters Breaking points are events in the changeling’s life 
gain this Condition when they harvest or reap any amount and actions she takes that shake her confidence in her 
of Glamour each day for at least a week, at Wyrd 6+. own reality. Anytime she experiences a breaking point, 

Clarity she suffers an attack on her Clarity. The player rolls a 
number of dice based on the breaking point’s severity (see 

Clarity represents the right and strength of all think- below). Other powers and events may attack the charac-
ing beings to trust their own perceptions and own their ter’s Clarity without constituting a breaking point, such 
own past. A changeling’s Clarity is her bulwark against as suffering physical damage to her dream form or certain 
the illusions of the True Fae or other supernatural forces, Contracts.
as well as the mundane world trying to tell her that her Two factors determine a breaking point’s dice pool: 
supernatural experiences are delusions. its baseline severity, and its attack modifiers. Generally, 

Clarity grounds the changeling in her own experi- the more distanced the changeling is from the event or 
ences, helping her distinguish what is real, and what is a the more she asserts her independence, the less purchase 
lie the True Fae or the mundane world are getting away the breaking point has on her. The more personal the 
with. When her Clarity is strong, she can trust that even event is, or the more she succumbs to the will of others, 
the most improbable magical elements she sees are real, the more likely it is to hit home. The following chart gives 
they affect her even if no one else can see them, and she examples of breaking point attack modifiers, which can 
understands her relationship to them. As her Clarity low- stack with each other:
ers, she doubts the validity of her own perception of these 
things, and either the Others or the mundane world begin Suggested  
to dictate her reality. She can no longer tell if she is simply Breaking Point Modifiers
seeing things when the Thorns reach out and scratch her, 
or if she is really in the Hedge. Weak Clarity is a danger- Situation Modifier
ous prospect for many changelings, as they lose perspec- Strongly associated with the changeling’s +3
tive and can slip into a dreamlike state if they have noth- durance or results in a surrender to a True 
ing grounding them against the lies of two worlds. Fae

Clarity Track Changeling forced to act against her will +3
Strong emotional investment +2

Clarity serves as a track to measure the changeling’s 
resistance against others making her doubt the truth of Affects a close friend or family member +2
her experiences, or even trying to take possession of them Changeling coerced into acting +1
for their own ends. As she endures events that undermine Some emotional investment +1
her ownership of her own perceptions, her Clarity suffers 
attacks in either mild or severe ways. Given the unusual Changeling is not personally present −1
nature of her experiences, a changeling’s firm Clarity is Aligns with the changeling’s Needle or −1
often “madness” to those around her. Thread

Perhaps the attack is a lucid dream of the time before Changeling spent Willpower on the −1
she was taken, but instead of her real parents, her True action
Fae captor reads her bedtime stories. Perhaps it’s the time 

104 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



No real emotional investment −1
Completely accidental, or occurs via −2 Powers as  
happenstance Breaking Points
Only affects a complete stranger −2
Results in a rejection of or triumph over a −3 Certain changeling abilities manipulate 
True Fae emotions and the desires of others, such as 

Bedlam, the Contracts of Spring, and some 
Some breaking points reference human or change- oneiromantic effects. Use of these powers con-

ling contact. This refers to meaningful, face-to-face in- stitutes a breaking point if a character forces a 
teraction. While it does not have to be positive interac- desire upon someone in a way they wouldn’t 
tion, it should be personal in nature. Paying a cashier normally agree to, and the Spring Court both 
while purchasing a coffee is not meaningful. However, acknowledges and bluntly addresses this 

line with its courtiers. Those who cross it can 
chatting up the barista and asking for his number could expect social and possibly formal conse-
be. Harvesting Glamour in general is not a human inter- quences, just like anyone else who abuses 
action, though if the changeling harvests while directly power in ways that call back to the horrors of 
inciting an emotion through contact, it would serve this the Gentry. The associated actions should de-
purpose. termine the severity of these breaking points, 

Roll Results at the Storyteller’s discretion.

Success: Roll the changeling’s Wyrd rating as a dice 
pool to determine how much mild Clarity damage she 
takes. Extra successes on a Clarity attack roll don’t add to in her life, or set her back in the short term inflict mild 
its damage. If this results in damage to any of the change- damage. Most Clarity attacks inflict mild damage.
ling’s three rightmost Clarity boxes, she gains a Clarity Events that rock the changeling to her core, make her 
Condition (see below). lose sight of her objectives, or leave lasting changes on her 

Exceptional Success: As success, except the Clarity psyche inflict severe damage. If the Clarity attack’s roll 
damage the changeling takes is severe instead. If this re- achieves an exceptional success, she takes severe damage 
sults in damage to any of her three rightmost Clarity box- from the attack.
es, she gains a Persistent Clarity Condition (see below). Each time a player’s character takes Clarity dam-

Failure: The changeling is a bit shaken, but takes no age, she marks it off on her Clarity track, using a slash (/) 
Clarity damage. for mild damage and an (X) for severe damage. For mild 

Dramatic Failure: The changeling takes no Clarity damage, she marks the leftmost empty box on her Clarity 
damage and regains one Willpower point. track. For severe damage, she marks the leftmost empty 

Changelings reach different levels of equilibrium with box or the leftmost box filled with mild damage. For ex-
different kinds of ordeals. While the below list of breaking ample, if Juliet takes 2 points of mild Clarity damage, her 
points is not exhaustive, it’s also only a series of guide- Clarity track would look like this:
lines. Feel free to add, take away, or adjust as you see fit. 
The dice pool listed is the baseline pool for the Clarity 
attack, subject to the above modifiers. Every changeling 
also has an additional, seeming-specific breaking point; If she then took a point of severe Clarity damage, her 
see Chapter 1. Clarity track would look like this:

Clarity Damage
Clarity attacks erode a changeling’s ability to perceive 

her surroundings with confidence and truth. When she 
suffers a successful Clarity attack, she risks taking damage A changeling’s perceptions are directly related to her 
to her Clarity. Roll a number of dice equal to her Wyrd current Clarity score. At high levels of Clarity, she has 
to inflict points of Clarity damage equal to the successes a better grasp on her surroundings. When her Clarity is 
on this roll. Some things modify this damage roll, such as undamaged, she gains a two-die bonus to perception rolls. 
attaching and detaching Touchstones, some Conditions, As her Clarity decreases, she loses track of reality. At 
and some supernatural effects. Clarity 3 and below, she falls prey to hallucinations if she 

experiences a dramatic failure on a perception roll. The 
A changeling can suffer two types of damage to her character suffers a cumulative one-die penalty to percep-

Clarity. Events that shake her, cause a minor disruption tion rolls for every two points below Clarity 5: thus, −1 

Wonders and Terrors 105



Sample Breaking Points

One Die •	 Having a mortal shun or disparage you.

•	 Told your experiences are unreal by someone who •	 Losing a Touchstone.
seems convincing, but whom you don’t know.

Four Dice
•	 Changing someone else via the Dream Infiltrator 

(p. 337) Condition. •	 Presented with “evidence” your experiences are 
unreal.

•	 Spending all your Glamour in one day.
•	 Accidentally killing a human.

•	 Going one full day without human or changeling 
contact. •	 Breaking formal oaths or pledges.

•	 Breaking a mundane promise. •	 Changing someone else via the Dream Assailant 
(p. 336) Condition.

•	 Meeting your fetch for the first time.
•	 Discovering that someone lied to you about some-

Two Dice thing important.

•	 Told your experiences are unreal by a figure whose •	 Death of a family member.
authority you believe in.

•	 Killing another changeling.
•	 Changing someone else via the Dream Intruder  

(p. 338) Condition. •	 Killing your own fetch.

•	 Eating nothing but goblin fruit for a full day. •	 Going a month without human or changeling contact.

•	 Having someone break a mundane promise to you. •	 Kidnapping or keeping someone captive.

•	 Discover that someone lied to you about something •	 Reenacting or reliving a memory from your durance.
minor. •	 Reaching Wyrd 6.

•	 Actively searching out memories of your durance. Five Dice
•	 Taking psychotropic drugs.

•	 Subjected to “deprogramming” or other extended, 
•	 Gaining a non-Clarity Condition that confuses your tormenting efforts to persuade you your experienc-

senses or badly jars you, such as Lost or Spooked. es are unreal.

•	 Having someone else tamper with your dreams. •	 Premeditated killing of a human.

•	 Going a week without human or changeling contact. •	 Going a year or more without human or changeling 
contact.

Three Dice
•	 Torturing someone.

•	 Told your experiences are unreal by someone you trust.
•	 Using Glamour to force someone to change their 

•	 Being the victim of a non-fae supernatural power behavior.
that confuses your senses, makes you question your 
surroundings or perceptions, or reenacts something •	 Brainwashing someone via repeated dream manip-
your Keeper did to you. ulation.

•	 Going two weeks without human or changeling contact. •	 Spending time in Arcadia.

•	 Killing someone else’s fetch. •	 Prolonged or intimate contact with a True Fae.

•	 Reaching Wyrd 3. •	 Killing your Touchstone.

•	 Having someone break a formal oath or pledge to you. •	 Reaping Glamour.

•	 Reaching Wyrd 10.



at Clarity 3-4, and −2 at Clarity 1-2. This is true even •	 Numb (Persistent)
if the changeling’s maximum Clarity is lower than 5; for 
instance, if a character’s maximum Clarity is 4 and she •	 Shaken
hasn’t taken any Clarity damage, apply the +2 and the 

•	 Sleepwalking (Persistent)
−1, for a total modifier of +1.

If a changeling takes any more mild Clarity dam- •	 Spooked
age after her track fills with damage of any kind, she 
falls unconscious, lost in her own dreams. She takes the •	 Withdrawn
Comatose Condition (p. 334) and can’t take any more For more information on these Conditions, see the 
Clarity damage until she heals at least one point. If she Appendix starting on p. 333.
takes severe damage after her track is filled with damage 
instead, she not only takes the Comatose Condition, but Kenning
risks death. The Comatose Condition becomes Persistent Changelings with strong Clarity are so good at tell-
and she can only resolve it with the help of her friends, as ing the difference between magic and mundane that they 
noted in the Condition’s text. have an easier time spotting the telltale signs of super-

A changeling can regain Clarity by spending time natural phenomena. The Lost refer to this as kenning. A 
with her Touchstones, and by resolving the damage Con- player whose character currently suffers Clarity damage in 
ditions (below). Even if she has no Touchstones currently fewer than half her Clarity boxes may make a kenning roll 
attached, each scene she spends interacting in a mean- by spending a point of Willpower. The Storyteller rolls the 
ingful way with one of her Touchstones heals one level of character’s current Clarity in secret to detect the presence 
severe Clarity damage, or all levels of mild Clarity dam- of supernatural elements in the area.
age (but doesn’t resolve any Conditions by default). See 
“Breaking Points,” above, for what constitutes meaningful Roll Results
interaction. If the changeling has no Touchstones at all, Success: Each success reveals the presence of one 
she must gain one before she can heal Clarity this way. supernatural creature, item, or active effect (including 

ongoing effects), assuming any are present. This does not 
Clarity Conditions allow for a Clash of Wills against anything actively con-

As a changeling takes damage to her three rightmost cealed through magic, as that level of scrutiny requires 
Clarity boxes, she gains Conditions — Persistent Condi- Contracts. The changeling cannot determine what kind 
tions if the damage was severe. She gains one Clarity Con- of supernatural phenomenon she has detected, only that 
dition for any amount of mild damage in these boxes, or it is one. If nothing supernatural is present, the player re-
one Persistent Condition for any amount of severe damage gains the Willpower she spent.
in the same. The Storyteller decides which Condition the Exceptional Success: As success, and the change-
character takes, though it should be germane to the situa- ling learns the true nature of the magic, or learns that 
tion that caused the damage. something is concealed supernaturally nearby. The for-

Whenever a character resolves any Clarity Condi- mer reveals a general description of the magic, but not the 
tion, she heals one point of Clarity damage; whenever she specifics. For example, the changeling could determine 
resolves any Persistent Clarity Condition, she heals two that someone was a vampire using a Discipline, but not 
instead. which one. She could determine the difference between 

The following Conditions could result from Clarity a mage’s spell and a fae Contract, but not the particular 
damage: effects of either.

Failure: The character is unable to get a clear im-
•	 Broken (Persistent) pression one way or another.
•	 Comatose Dramatic Failure: The changeling misreads the situ-

ation in a disastrous way, determined by the Storyteller. 
•	 Confused She may mistake a dangerous spell for a beneficial one, or 

misidentify someone mundane as a Huntsman.
•	 Delusional (Persistent)

Mask
•	 Dissociation

Illusions hide fae magic from human eyes. Only 
•	 Distracted in the world of deepest dreams do mortals awaken to 

the magic of Faerie. This same illusion weaves about 
•	 Fugue (Persistent) the Lost, disguising their true natures to the masses. 

Changelings call this powerful illusion the Mask. The 

Wonders and Terrors 107



Mask defies mortal senses and technology alike. It is not a visceral reaction. Some are cowed, others awed, and 
of changeling design, but something perhaps conjured by others run in fear. Either way, when they see her, they 
the Others in ancient times. Maybe it is simply the na- gain the Spooked Condition.
ture of fae things, for which illusion and deceit are as real The price for such revelation is steep, as it doesn’t 
as flesh and blood. It hides them so completely that it just reveal the changeling’s hidden self, but rips away the 
persists even beyond death. To those fooled by the Mask, illusion that hides the world in which she walks. The act 
the transformations undergone in the durance simply of tearing away the Mask also opens any gateways to the 
don’t exist. A little of the changeling’s true nature bleeds Hedge within 10 yards or meters per dot of Wyrd she pos-
through, but not enough to recognize without being a sesses. Additionally, she leaves a magical trail, making it 
part of that world. easy for fae creatures to track her in the mortal world. 

Fae beings and other supernatural creatures with Gentry and Huntsmen automatically succeed on rolls to 
mystical senses can see through the Mask. This ex- track or follow her within the same range while her Mask 
tends to objects originating from Faerie, such as a sword is down there. 
forged out of a dragon’s claw or a gown spun only of 
perfect snowflakes. The Lost see these objects as they Mien
truly are, but to mortal eyes these things are mundane, What the Mask hides is a changeling’s fae mien. This 
if exceptional in some way. The Mask only covers ob- is her true shape, transformed by her time in Faerie. An 
jects and beings from Faerie, and not mundane clothing Elemental might have icy blue skin and hair that streams 
or items a changeling might wear. Fae tokens and ob- like frigid water about her shoulders. A Beast has scaly 
jects retrieved from the Hedge almost always resemble skin and rows of bony ridges instead of hair. An Ogre’s 
their real-world counterparts. A changeling can spend stony flesh feels rough to the touch and instead of two 
a Glamour to see another changeling’s Mask instead of eyes, she has one. The Mask disguises even these changes. 
her mien for a few seconds. An Elemental made of ice feels cold to the touch, but her 

The changeling can strengthen his Mask such that lover only assumes she has poor circulation. A changeling 
other Lost and supernatural creatures cannot pierce it. with clockwork mechanisms replacing her organs seems 
To do so, he spends a point of Glamour as a reflexive perfectly normal under medical examination. An Ogre’s 
action and wills the Mask to become active. For the rest eyes are perhaps too close together or larger than normal, 
of the scene, his Mask hides him from fae eyes. Charac- his skin rough and dry. 
ters using sensory magic can oppose this disguise with Changes wrought by the durance reach beyond the 
a Clash of Wills (p. 126). This disguise is imperfect, as cosmetic, manifesting as blessings from seeming and kith. 
when other fae see his shadow, they see the shadow cast A Darkling can become a shadow or a sunbeam, a Beast’s 
by his true form. claws rend flesh like real talons, and a Leechfinger’s lam-

A changeling may scour her Mask away, revealing prey fingers actually do latch on to drink blood from his 
her fae form and embracing her magical nature. To do so victims. The Mask does not fully hide these changes. 
is fraught with peril, and few changelings choose such an Mortal observers explain these effects away as unusual 
act without serious reason. The changeling spends a point but ultimately mundane circumstances: long nails, strong 
of Glamour as an instant action, and the Mask shatters in hands, or an uncommon limberness. Though the Mask 
dramatic fashion — burning, breaking, or crawling away disguises even their effects, it does not diminish them. A 
from her fae form. For the rest of the scene, all observers Fairest’s song may seem only a beautiful melody, but it still 
see her as she truly is. The Mask reinstates itself at the enraptures those who listen.
end of the scene, or sooner if the changeling spends an- The fae mien grows more pronounced as a change-
other point of Glamour as an instant action. ling’s Wyrd rises. Even the Mask strains to disguise 

Revealing herself in this way does confer some subtle, cool breezes, scents like the ocean, auras of fear 
benefits. While her Mask is gone, treat each success- where the shadows seem to deepen around the change-
ful rolled Contract use as though you rolled an excep- ling, or an impression of glinting, catlike eyes. A change-
tional success, regardless of the actual successes rolled. ling’s Mantle flavors these effects, sending Winter chills 
If the number of successes is important, use whichever down a bystander’s spine, filling someone with the 
is greater from among your rolled successes, your char- warmth and vigor of Spring, or inciting the greed and 
acter’s Wyrd, or her Mantle rating. For Contracts with- envy of Coins. The effects are mostly harmless, unlike 
out rolls, the changeling may impress at will with each the more potent magic of the Lost, but help to define a 
use, removing one Door for purposes of her next Social changeling as something not fully of this world. Humans 
maneuvering roll (p. 191) against one witness; this ef- notice these subtle but significant signs of fae nature and 
fect doesn’t stack with multiple such Contract uses in a the changeling finds herself distanced yet a little more 
row. Mortals who see the changeling’s true nature have from her former kin.

108 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Portaling changeling spends a point of Glamour, and must make a 
request for the portal to open into the Hedge. This could 

Changelings escaped Arcadia, a land where fate and be something as simple as “open sesame” or as complex as 
time are mutable and the whims of monstrous solipsists a sonnet. Then, the portal opens immediately to a place 
shape reality. By doing so, they forged a Contract with in the Hedge. The changeling does not get to designate 
Faerie itself, so that not even dreams can hold them pris- where she goes in the Hedge, but sometimes the risk of 
oner. Changelings can escape any kind of confinement. landing in the middle of a patch of Thorns is worth the 
They refer to this phenomenon as portaling, referring spe- escape. Doors always open to the same part of the Hedge, 
cifically to the ability to open doors into the Hedge, but so an experienced portaler may open all the doors around 
it applies to all aspects of their ability to spend Glamour her home to check for the best escape route.
to gain freedom.

The reverse works as well; if the changeling finds 
If bound or held, the character can simply slip free a portal within the Hedge, he may spend Glamour and 

of the bonds — escaping a grapple, or slipping free of open it to flee to the human world. Again, he doesn’t get 
manacles. To do so, she spends a Glamour as a reflexive to dictate where in the world it opens, but it follows the 
action. She automatically gains freedom from whatever same rules for entering: a portal he can fit through.
was holding her. If her bonds are supernatural in nature, 
such as someone using magical force to hold her down, or This is not to say that escape is without consequenc-
a magic rope binding her arms, she must engage in a Clash es. The ability does not protect a changeling from her 
of Wills with the effect’s creator. She may retry without jailers. She can escape police custody — handcuffs and 
penalty, as many times as she likes — an exception to the a cell can’t hold her — but she still has a mugshot, her 
rule about successive actions. Simply put, a changeling criminal record, and the police after her. Escaping just 
can always escape if she makes the conscious decision to made everything worse. The changeling must weigh the 
do so, as long as she still has Glamour left to spend. consequences against the risks of incarceration, rather 

than expecting a “get out of jail free” card. 
To open a door to the Hedge, the changeling 

must have access to a closeable portal that she could Among the Lost, captivity is one of the worst pun-
fit through, such as a door, window, or manhole. The ishments. Keeping a changeling imprisoned is relatively 

Wonders and Terrors 109



difficult, requiring the use of magic, iron, or a frailty. Some Suggested Bedlam Modifiers
freeholds keep one or more iron cages, though many be-
lieve this is an inhumane way to treat each other. Others Changeling
maintain mundane jails, and simply enforce superlative Modifier Situation
penalties for those who choose to escape, thus giving 
criminals enough rope to hang themselves. +3 The changeling unleashes an emotion 

associated with his court.
Bedlam +1 The emotion is from the court most closely 

Faerie is a place full of intense and conflicting associated with the character’s own (for 
emotional situations. Fear wars with joy, anger fights instance: Spring/Summer, Autumn/Winter).
against happiness, and all the feelings in between rage +1 Each additional Glamour spent, up to a 
through the magical realm. The Lost, though now es- maximum of five.
caped, can still feel those emotions, and sometimes tap −1 The emotion is from a court of minor 
into them. By drawing on his own strong passions, a opposition (for instance: Summer/Autumn, 
changeling can convert Glamour back into an outpour- Spring/Winter).
ing of emotions and send them coursing through the 
people around him, overwhelming them with extreme −3 The emotion is from a court of major 
emotional responses. opposition (for instance: Summer/Winter, 

Autumn/Spring).
The urges the changeling has released consume tar-

gets who fail to resist, and they abandon other activities Target
in favor of following the whims of their incited emotions.

Modifier Situation
Incite Bedlam

+2 The target is already feeling emotions 
Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower strongly in opposition to those unleashed.
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Wyrd vs. Composure + +1 The target is relatively calm and relaxed.

Wyrd (contested separately by each target)
−1 The target is already feeling emotions 

Action: Contested; resistance is reflexive. similar to those unleashed.
Roll Results Bedlam is a wild, unrestrained release of emo-
Success: Anyone within sensory range of the tional energy. No one made an agreement with these 

changeling is overcome with the emotion the changeling emotions, like a Contract, and so all bets are off. It’s a 
channels. The person must be able to sense the change- blunt-force instrument, incapable of sending thought-
ling somehow; even cameras or recording devices convey ful direction, or even bold commands. The changeling 
Bedlam’s effects. The changeling chooses a single Con- may attempt to guide the behavior of the targets via 
dition at the time he incites Bedlam appropriate to the mundane methods, such as attempting to draw the 
emotion he incites. Using the four Seasonal courts’ emo- attention of an angry mob toward a single target, or 
tions as an example, these would be: Wanton for desire, shouting “run for your lives!” after unleashing a wave 
Competitive for wrath, Frightened for fear, and Lethargic of fear through a crowd, but even this method is not 
for sorrow. Those who fail to successfully contest this perfect. Mob rule takes over, and sometimes drawing 
power gain the Condition. attention to yourself is more dangerous than just letting 

The target rationalizes the change of emotion as it run its course.
perfectly natural while it’s going on, but after the ef- This power targets anyone who can sense the change-
fects end he may question why he felt that way. Su- ling, and cannot distinguish between friend and foe. The 
pernatural creatures may very well suspect a magical changeling cannot choose to selectively remove targets 
cause. from the effect, nor direct the effect at a small group 

Exceptional Success: As success, and the changeling of targets out of a crowd. Once per scene, a player may 
may pick a second Condition to inflict as part of his Bedlam. choose to have his character involuntarily incite Bedlam 

Failure: The changeling fails to create a strong emo- to gain a Beat. Inciting Bedlam this way does not cost 
tional response. Glamour or Willpower, but the changeling has no con-

trol over which emotion she unleashes, which is instead at 
Dramatic Failure: The people around the change- Storyteller discretion.

ling do not experience the desired emotion, but instead 
turn against her, feeling extreme antipathy toward her.

110 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Merits Changeling Merits
The following Merits are available to changeling Acute Senses (•)

characters. Unless noted, human characters cannot take 
Merits of a supernatural nature. Prerequisite: Wits or Composure •••

Effect: The changeling’s senses are especially acute, 
Sanctity of Merits even by the standards of high Clarity. Her sight, hearing, 

Merits reflect aspects of your character but are an and sense of smell operate at twice the distance and accu-
out-of-game resource. For example, your character may racy of mortal senses. She can’t see in pitch darkness (for 
have friends, but you can choose to spend Experiences or that, she needs Contract magic), but she can see much 
Merit dots to purchase the Allies Merit. This gives those more clearly than humans can.
friends a direct effect in the game. If something happens Add the character’s Wyrd rating as dice to any per-
to a character’s friends, specifically supporting cast not ception-based rolls. This bonus supersedes the one nor-
represented by Merit dots, the story goes on and nothing mally granted by maximum Clarity. Also, add the bonus 
happens in terms of game mechanics. If something hap- to any rolls made to remember or identify details.
pens to Allies, however, you don’t lose those points. The 
Allies dots disappear but you receive Experiences equal to Arcadian Metabolism (••)
the dots lost. This is called the “Sanctity of Merits” rule. Effect: Your character is particularly well-suited to 

If your character loses a Merit, you may repurchase it time in Arcadia and the Hedge. Maybe he was abducted 
in the next chapter of your chronicle. You can’t just say, at an early age and knows more of Arcadia than Earth, or 
“All right, my Allies died. I’m buying new Allies to call.” he glutted himself on rare goblin fruit for the entirety of 
You’d have to wait until the next chapter. Alternatively, his captivity. 
you can spend those Experiences on other traits that are In the Hedge, increase his natural healing rates: 
relevant to the situation. Maybe losing those Allies in- Bashing damage heals at one point per minute and lethal 
spired a few trips to the firing range to let off steam, so you damage heals at one point per day. Aggravated damage 
spend those points on a dot of Firearms. healing is unaffected.

Motley Merits Brownie’s Boon (•)
Merits tagged “Motley” can be purchased as a motley; Effect: Like the shoemaker’s elves, your character 

any character that contributes dots to the total has access completes tasks with a casual disregard for time. Reduce 
to the full, combined amount. For example, Resources is a the interval for any mundane extended action roll she 
Motley Merit. If one character contributes one dot, one con- makes while no one watches her by half. The character 
tributes two dots, and one contributes zero dots, the first and may spend a Glamour to halve the interval again, work-
second characters have access to Resources •••, but the third ing at four times her normal speed for that roll. Excep-
character does not have access to those Resources at all. tional success on an individual roll can decrease the time 

You can effectively increase a Merit above five dots it takes to complete that roll to an eighth of the usual 
this way. However, a character still only has access to five interval, if the player chooses the time reduction benefit.
dots’ worth of advantages. For example, if six characters Cloak of Leaves (• to •••)
each contribute Resources •, that would technically be 
Resources ••••• •. However, each character only has ac- Prerequisite: Autumn Mantle •••
cess to Resources •••••. Effect: Your character has learned to embrace his 

worries and fears, and use them as a shield against the su-
Style Merits pernatural. Anyone using a supernatural ability to cause 

Style Merits are special Merits that afford different or damage or inflict physical Tilts upon the character suffers 
additional effects, depending on the dots you possess. Most a penalty equal to his dots in this Merit. Supernatural 
Style Merits range from • to •••••. You purchase these abilities include Contracts, kith blessings, vampire Disci-
Merits just like any other Merit — each additional dot costs plines, mage spells, and any other innate ability used by a 
one Experience. However, instead of simply increasing in supernatural creature.
magnitude like the Allies Merit, each dot gives a different Cold Hearted (•••)
game mechanic or character option — you have access to 
all abilities at your dot rating and lower. The most common Prerequisite: Winter Mantle •••
examples of Style Merits are those Merits that grant different Effect: Your character has taken her pain, and the pain 
fighting abilities, like martial arts styles. You can find more of others, and crafted them into a barrier against further suf-
of these in the Chronicles of Darkness Core Rulebook. fering. She may spend a Willpower to ignore the effects of 

Merits 111



Dots in Court Goodwill also function like dots in 
the Allies Merit (p. 120), except that attempts to block 

Seasons Change another character’s Merit use fail automatically against 
a character with any Mantle dots in the same court. 

If a changeling wishes to join a new court If you use Court Goodwill to block a character with 
instead of simply relying on its Goodwill, a Court Goodwill rating in the same court, the rating 
shedding the Mantle of one and adopting 
the Mantle of another, the rituals and re- of the blocker and actor both effectively drop by one 
quirements vary drastically between courts. until they make reparations to the court in question. 
He may have to make amends to one he’s This usually entails a rare gift, or an oath or service of 
left or suffer a dangerous frailty for weeks to some kind.
follow. Joining the new court may require an Finally, each court in which a character has Court 
offering, or a quest that proves his worth to Goodwill comes with a single dot of Mentor, a changeling 
his new peers. who serves as the character’s court liaison and helps him 
Mechanically, halve his dots in the existing understand its rituals, its customs, and its very essence. 
Mantle (rounded down) and transform them Work with the Storyteller to detail this character.
into dots of Court Goodwill for the court he 
left behind. Halve and transform any Court Defensive Dreamscaping (••)
Goodwill dots he had for his newly adopted Effect: Your character is adept at manipulating the 
court into dots of its Mantle the same way. dream in a hand-to-hand fight. A gust of wind carries 
Merit dots lost in this way are subject to the her out of the way of an attack, an eidolon leaps in front 
Sanctity of Merits (p. 111). of a bullet for her, or her opponent’s blade dulls when it 

strikes. Add half her Wyrd (rounded down) to her De-
fense in dreams.

Diviner (• to •••••)
a single Clarity Condition once per scene. She still has the 
Condition and doesn’t heal any Clarity damage, but she does Prerequisites: Composure •••, Wits •••
not suffer the ill effects of the Condition. If her actions during Effect: Your character can dig within his dreams 
the scene would resolve the Condition, it resolves normally. for prophetic answers to primordial truths, as all hu-

manity is and has always been connected through 
Court Goodwill (• to •••••) its dreams via the Dreaming Roads. He must enter a 

Effect: Court Goodwill represents a changeling’s in- dream state, through either the Gate of Ivory or Horn, 
fluence and respect in a court that isn’t his own. It allows into his own Bastion. Then, he may ask the Storyteller 
him to have serious ties to as many courts as he likes, in a yes or no question about something he wishes to di-
addition to the one he has sworn magical allegiance to. vine from his dreams. She must answer accurately, but 
This isn’t to say Court Goodwill is a purely social con- can use “maybe” if the answer is truly neither yes nor 
struct. This Merit covers both the mundane networking no. Depending on the answer, you may ask additional, 
required of being part of a large social group and the fickle related questions, up to your Merit dots. You can ask 
favor of whatever plays patron to a court. In this way, a that many total questions per chapter.
changeling of the White Rose Court can use the benefits 
of the Red Rose Court’s Mantle, the Red Rose Courtier Dream Warrior (•)
can be privy to the Blue Rose Court’s magic, and so on. Prerequisites: Wyrd 2+, one Social Attribute •••, a 

Each instance of Court Goodwill represents a specific specialty in Brawl or Weaponry
court, but you may take the Merit as many times as there Effect: Your character’s extensive training in onei-
are courts available. For instance, a single changeling romancy allows her to benefit from the flexibility of the 
may have Mantle: Spring ••, Court Goodwill: Winter •, dream. By blending dreamscaping and martial tech-
Court Goodwill: Autumn ••, and Court Goodwill: Sum- niques, strikes land faster as the dream bends to aid her 
mer •••. A character may not have Court Goodwill and blows. Whenever you allocate any successes generated 
Mantle for the same court. with a Brawl or Weaponry attack (depending on which 

A changeling gains access to a court’s Mantle effects Specialty you have) to a subtle oneiromantic shift, gain 
at two dots lower than his dots in that court’s Goodwill. one bonus success to spend on that shift as long as you 
For instance, access to the abilities of Summer Mantle spend it to impact the fight in some direct way. If you have 
••• requires Court Goodwill: Summer ••••• for any a Specialty in both Skills, you gain these benefits on both 
changeling without a Summer Mantle. types of attack.

112 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Dreamweaver (•••) Wrath of Titans (•••••): The changeling can spend 
Prerequisite: Wyrd 3+ a Glamour to make his successful attacks cause one of 

the following Tilts for the scene, chosen when activated: 
Effect: As his connection to the Wyrd grows stron- Blinded (one eye, or two with multiple attacks on the 

ger, so does the changeling’s control over dreams. Once same target), Deafened (one ear, or two with multiple at-
per scene, you may spend a Willpower point to make tacks on the same target), or Knocked Down.
three successes count as an exceptional success on a 
dreamweaving roll (p. 217). Enchanting Performance  
Dull Beacon (• to •••••) (• to •••; Style)

Effect: Your character’s Mask is far less obtrusive Prerequisites: Presence •••, Expression •••
when she drops it. Reduce her Wyrd by her Dull Beacon Effect: A character with Enchanting Performance 
dots when determining the distance at which she alerts can touch upon whatever font makes all things fae so cap-
fae creatures and opens Hedge gateways when dropping tivating. She brings a little of that magical obsession from 
her Mask (p. 83). If this would effectively reduce her to beyond the Hedge and puts it to use. Whether she does so 
Wyrd 0, she no longer opens gates or alerts fae creatures for cruelty or kindness depends on the changeling. 
at all until her Wyrd increases. Limerick (•): Your character knows how to aim insults 

at an audience for maximum humiliation. Roll Presence + 
Elemental Warrior  Expression for your character to deliver a scathing invective 
(• to •••••; Style) or dressing down, resisted by the target’s Composure. Her tar-

Prerequisites: Dexterity or Wits •••; Brawl, Fire- get takes a penalty equal to her rolled successes to all Social 
arms, or Weaponry ••; Elemental Weapon or Primal rolls he makes against any observers (other than the change-
Glory (Contracts) or Elemental seeming ling herself) for the rest of the scene, to a maximum of −5.

Effect: Choose one physical element when you pur- Poem (••): When your character has successfully 
chase this Merit, such as wind, flame, or wood. Your char- opened a Door using Expression for performance, she may 
acter commands it in battle; all of the following effects spend a Glamour to open another Door immediately.
apply only to the chosen element. Sonnet (•••): Your character encourages a fearsome 

Wind Cuts to the Bone (•): The changeling achieves self-confidence with a performance unlike anything her 
exceptional success on any roll to deal purely elemental audience has ever seen. She may spend a Glamour to give 
damage with three successes instead of five, except when the rote quality to her next mundane performance-relat-
Hedgespinning or dreamweaving. If a weapon is made ed Expression roll. If successful, a target in the audience 
from only the chosen element, such as a wooden club, it gains the Inspired Condition (p. 342). On an exceptional 
counts. success, everyone viewing the performance gains the In-

spired Condition.
Defensive Flurry (••): The character adds half his 

Wyrd (rounded down) in dice to his Dodge pool after Fae Mount (• to •••••)
doubling his Defense. This swirling elemental shield al-
lows the character to Dodge Firearms attacks as well, but Effect: Your character has befriended a creature of the 
not apply Defense against them. Hedge to serve as his steed. Through a special song or ges-

ture, the mount comes to its master anywhere in the Hedge, 
Hungry Leaping Flames (•••): By spending a Glam- except to the Hollow of a changeling who prohibits it.

our, the changeling may make melee attacks from 10 
yards/meters away from his target and add 10 yards/meters Additionally, each dot of this Merit allows the crea-
to the short/medium/long ranges of a ranged attack for ture one of the following special abilities:
the scene. In addition, the appropriate elemental effects •	 Manyleague: With a body of screaming wind or 
may disturb the scenery: Flammable objects can ignite, quicksilver, the steed is faster than any other, dou-
cutting winds might knock over unsecured objects, and bling its Speed. It gains the Merit’s rating as a bo-
so forth. nus to Initiative if it acts on its own; if not, you gain 

Antaean Endurance (••••): While the character the Initiative bonus while mounted instead.
remains in significant contact with the chosen element 
(standing on bare earth, knee deep in water, facing pow- •	 Chatterbox: Many creatures in the Hedge are more 
erful wind gusts, etc.), he gains extra Health boxes equal intelligent than their appearance would let on. The 
to half his Wyrd, rounded down. Add the same as bonus steed can speak to and understand its owner clearly, 
dice to all rolls to resist fatigue or toxins, or to stay con- and can relay simple messages in its master’s tongue to 
scious. other changelings, though complex words and meta-

phor are beyond this special ability.

Merits 113



its haunches. It can carry a number of individuals 
equal to dots in this Merit in addition to its nor-

Fae Mount mal carrying capacity. It receives an additional two 
dots of Stamina.

Attributes: Intelligence 1, Wits 3, Resolve 3, 
Strength 5, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5, Presence •	 Dreamspun: Some creatures in the Hedge exist 
3, Manipulation 1, Composure 2 only as long as they’re acknowledged. When the 
Skills: Athletics 4, Brawl 1 (Kicking), mount dies, it returns to life the next time the 
Survival 2 character gets a full night’s rest, with no knowledge 

of perishing. It gains dots in Stealth equal to your 
Willpower: 5 dots in Fae Mount.

Initiative: 5 •	 Thornbeast: Many fanged monsters hunt in the 
Hedge, and your character’s mount is one of these 

Defense: 7 faerie predators. Add two dice to all attacks the 
Speed: 19 (species factor 12) mount makes, and increase their weapon modi-

fier by 2. This can represent anything from natural 
Size: 7 claws to grotesque metal sawblades.

Weapons/Attacks: •	 Hedgefoot: Many faerie creatures aren’t earth-
Type Damage Dice Pool bound. They swing from trees, claw their way up 

walls, and even fly. Your character’s mount is no 
Bite +0 5 different. It can either run across water as fast it 
Kick or Claw +2* 6 moves on land, move up buildings at three times 

its normal Speed, or fly once per scene at twice its 
*A successful strike from the creature’s Kick/ Speed for a number of turns equal to your dots in 
Claw inflicts the Knocked Down Tilt (p. 330) this Merit.
Health: 12

Faerie Favor (•••)
Special: The mount can lift four times as 
much as a human with comparable Strength Effect: The Gentry’s promises bind them to a greater 
and Athletics. By default, it can carry one degree than those of the Lost do, and your character pos-
rider. sesses such a promise. She is entitled to a favor from one 

of the True Fae. She may have gained this favor through 
anything from knowing a clever riddle to a dark deed 
done at the cost of another changeling’s freedom. How-

•	 Actormask: Most fae mounts can’t leave the ever she earned it, she has a bauble, song, or phrase that 
Hedge, fading into nothing if they try and reform- represents the favor, and when she breaks, sings, or utters 
ing somewhere inside the Hedge after a day and a it, the True Fae appears.
night. With Actormask, the changeling can bring The favor can be many things: the capture of a ri-
it through a gate into the mundane world, where it val the changeling has tracked to his Hollow, a week of 
persists as long as the changeling feeds it a point freedom from a Huntsman on the changeling’s heels, safe 
of Glamour once per scene. Like your changeling, passage to somewhere in the Hedge or mortal world, etc. 
the mount has a Mask, which the character can After the character calls in the favor, she gains dots in 
scour away or reinforce just like his own. An ar- any combination of Merits appropriate to the power of the 
mored spider mount might become a Volkswagen Gentry, per the Sanctity of Merits rule (p. 111).
Beetle, while a horse of steaming blood might be- Drawback: The character gains the Notoriety Con-
come a sporty red motorcycle. Any other abilities dition among the Lost when she calls in the favor.
it receives from this Merit still apply and whatever 
form the Mask takes should bear that in mind. Fair Harvest (• or ••) 

•	 Armorshell: Plates of thick chitin or stone cover Effect: Your character favors a particular f lavor of 
the beast. It gains 3/2 armor and provides partial Glamour. Choose a specific emotion when taking this 
concealment to anyone currently riding. Merit. With one dot, any rolls to harvest that emotion 

(p. 103) enjoy the 8-again quality. Rolls to harvest any 
•	 Burdenback: The mount is massive, with broad other emotion do not benefit from the 10-again quality. 

shoulders or a pearlescent coach that grows from At two dots, harvesting the favored emotion instead 

114 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



enjoys the rote quality, and you subtract one success Hedge Brawler (••)
from rolls to harvest other emotions in addition to the Prerequisites: Brawl, Firearms, or Weaponry ••
loss of 10-again.

Effect: Your character is adept at fighting within 
Firebrand (••) the Hedge. You may take a dice penalty on a violent ac-

tion designated for Hedgespinning between −1 and −3 
Prerequisite: Summer Mantle ••• to gain that number of extra successes if the action is 
Effect: Your character has the spirit of Summer with- successful. You can only use these successes for shaping 

in him, and channels that wrath into others. Once per Hedge details; this can’t turn a normal success into an 
scene, when your character goads someone into a fight, he exceptional one.
regains a single Willpower point.

Hedge Duelist (• to •••; Style)
Gentrified Bearing (••)

Prerequisites: Presence or Manipulation ••, Brawl or 
Prerequisite: Wyrd 2+ Weaponry ••, any Social Skill ••
Effect: Your character was molded in the image of Effect: Your character is a skilled fae duelist, capable 

her Keeper, stole some essential spark of its fire, or learned of turning the Hedge into a weapon. Each duelist adopts a 
to emulate its otherness. Regardless of how she obtained different style. A capricious sword dancer might taunt and 
this mixed blessing, hobgoblins tend to mistake her for a tease the Hedge into action, while a king of beasts calls 
True Fae — if only for a moment. Glamour phantoms and Hedge fiends to aid him, and 

When dealing with hobgoblins, Intimidation rolls a druidic sorcerer communes with the Hedge, its voice 
add the character’s Wyrd rating in dice, to a maximum guiding his movements. This Merit’s effects only work in 
of +5. While most hobgoblins don’t look too closely at a the Hedge proper.
True Fae, a wise changeling shows caution with her de- Thousand Falling Leaves (•): The character’s at-
mands. Even a simpering, cowed hobgoblin does not take tacks flutter about his enemy like a cascade of falling 
kindly to deceit, and even a successful ruse is unlikely to leaves. You may inflict a −1 Defense penalty on your 
fool the same creature twice. character’s opponent against one attack in exchange for 

Glamour Fasting (•) only dealing half the damage the attack would normally 
deal if you succeed. 

Effect: Your character can endure without Glamour Emerald Shield (••): The Hedge lifts up the stron-
longer than others. As long as he has Willpower remain- gest and shields him from harm. Leaves, roots, branches, 
ing, he doesn’t suffer from deprivation when he drops to even flocks of birds surge to turn aside his foe’s attacks. 
Glamour 0 (or below his Wyrd, for high-Wyrd change- He gains an armor rating of 2/0, which stacks with worn 
lings) until one full chapter has passed since he last had armor but not with armor gained from Hedgespinning 
any Glamour. or Contracts.
Goblin Bounty (• to •••••) Bite Like Thorns (•••): Your character’s attacks 

wound deeply, and the Hedge greedily soaks up the blood 
Effect: The Lost has access to a regular bounty of he spills. Fat vines snake around his opponent’s limbs, fas-

goblin fruit and oddments. She may personally cultivate tening like leeches onto their wounds. Razor-edged leaves 
them, or scavenge them from a secret place in the Hedge open their cuts. Add a dice bonus to attacks equal to the 
that only she knows about. She has access to three times wound penalty his foe suffers.
her dots in this Merit of common goblin fruits and odd-
ments per chapter. Depending on her Wyrd, she may not Hedge Sense (•)
be able to carry them with her all at once, but the rest are 
stored somewhere safe and do not require a special scene Effect: The character is especially skilled at finding 
to access. her way in the Hedge. Gain a two-die bonus to all rolls 

to navigate the Hedge, and to find Icons, food, shelter, or 
Grounded (•••) goblin fruit there.

Prerequisite: Spring Mantle ••• Hob Kin (•)
Effect: Your character’s connection to the Spring Effect: Your character has established a kind of kin-

Court makes him sure of himself and his perceptions. ship with hobgoblins. It may be a matter of resemblance to 
Even when he is at his weakest and most vulnerable, the a True Fae they fear, or something about his kith that en-
verdant life of Spring protects him. He has an armor rat- courages this behavior, but they show him a respect gener-
ing of 1 against all Clarity attacks that deal mild damage. ally unheard of by the Lost. It isn’t much like the respect 

of friends or peers, but they treat him less ruthlessly than 

Merits 115



they do outsiders. Increase his starting impression with the case, once per chapter the player may roll her Hollow 
non-hostile hobgoblin characters by one level on the chart rating as a dice pool. Success allows the changeling to 
(p. 192) for Social maneuvering. have one mundane or Hedgespun item on hand in her 

Additionally, if the character has a Hollow (below), Hollow, with an Availability or dot rating equal to or less 
he may take the enhancement Hob Alarm. than the rolled successes. This item lasts for a scene be-

fore sublimating back into the Hollow’s latent Glamour. 
Hollow (• to •••••, Motley) These items have minor oddities, like the jukebox that 

Effect: While Safe Place (p. 125) represents a plays only for the changeling’s ears. The Storyteller is the 
mundane-but-secure lair outside the Hedge, Hollow is final arbiter of what constitutes a minor oddity.
your character’s secret, private bit of real estate inside Shadow Garden (•): The Hollow has a patch of 
the Hedge. It may be something as simple as a closet trembling soil, a deceased nightmare’s fertile belly, or a 
door that opens into a quiet, hollowed-out tree, or as rose garden of painted flowers. Any goblin fruit consumed 
elaborate as a knock that opens any unlocked door into in the Hollow reappears in the garden an hour after its 
a lavish, gothic mansion. These locations are as varied consumption. The resulting fruit provides none of the 
as the Hedge itself. benefits of a goblin fruit, but resembles it to all senses. 

The character has cleared away any imposing Thorns Any hunger these shadow fruits sate returns in full force 
that might cause trouble in her pocket of personal reality. an hour after they’re consumed. A week of staving off 
With few exceptions (see below), these faerie safehouses hunger in this manner constitutes a breaking point.
are tied to a single, consistent physical entrance into the Phantom Phone Booth (•): The Hollow has an an-
Hedge, but being part of the Hedge means they don’t need cient phone booth, mounted boar head, or singing pool 
to conform to available space. In any case, the Hollow that allows the owner to make calls outside the Hedge. A 
belongs to your character, or her motley, and has some character may call any phone with a public listing without 
innate protection from intrusion. knowing the exact digits of the number, and attempts to 

While a changeling is inside her Hollow, any attempts trace the call or read phone records show the call as com-
to learn her personal information suffer the Merit’s rating as ing from the recipient’s line. The phantom phone booth 
a dice penalty, as if she had the Anonymity Merit at an equal has no number for incoming calls, though it occasionally 
rating. Attempts to pursue or track her, both supernatural receives calls meant for out-of-service numbers.
and mundane, suffer the same penalty. Only an entity whose Route Zero (•): A length of trod with a one-dot 
Wyrd exceeds the Merit’s rating may force the entrance to rating bisects the Hollow. It juts awkwardly from a wall, 
the Hollow. Even then, one of the Hollow’s owners (even if plunges down a tunnel of impenetrable darkness, or disap-
no one is present) can attempt to resist the intrusion with a pears over a foggy bridge. Its beginning and end are trou-
Clash of Wills (p. 126). A day and a night must pass before blesome to determine. Any character traversing the trod 
the intruder can try again if he fails. makes a Hedge navigation roll (p. 200) to ensure they do 

Additionally, your Hollow may have any combination so safely. At the end, anyone who makes the journey ends 
of the following enhancements that adds up to its rating: where they began, and regains a point of Willpower. A 

character may only take this journey once a day.
Hob Alarm (•): A group of somewhat friendly hobgob-

lins has taken refuge in the character’s Hollow. They react If players purchase Route Zero for two or more differ-
poorly to any sign of intruders. While within her Hollow, a ent Hollows, it may pass through all of them. All owners 
character cannot lose her Defense due to surprise and adds must agree to this at the time of purchase, but once done 
her Hollow’s rating in dice to all actions during the first turn it cannot be undone. 
of an action scene. Maintaining the presence of these hob- Size Matters (• or ••): Without purchasing this 
goblins requires the character to accept one point of Goblin enhancement, the Hollow is only big enough for two 
Debt (p. 162) at the beginning of each story. changelings to sleep comfortably. With one dot, a motley 

Adding this to your Hollow requires at least one mot- of five to six changelings has enough room to stay without 
ley member to have the Hob Kin Merit. immediate cabin fever. The second dot turns the Hollow 

into a vast estate or small town, and members of a motley 
Luxury Goods (•): A variety of mundane supplies might not even see each other for the duration of a stay.

and Hedgespun treats fills the Hollow, which allows a 
changeling to hold out for the long haul. Few modern con- Escape Route (• or ••): Hollows normally only have 
veniences work in the Hedge, but it’s not uncommon to a single exit into the real world. This enhancement creates 
find crystalline televisions that play unaired, unrecorded a second emergency egress. Whether someone invades the 
episodes of canceled TV shows, or jukeboxes that play mu- Hollow, or a clever Huntsman waits for a changeling at 
sic only the changeling can hear, or iceboxes overfull of the Hedge entrance to her den, sometimes it’s important 
off-brand colas that never saw the light of day. Whatever to be able to bug out. At one dot, the one-way exit is a se-

cure, stationary place within the Hollow’s borders. At two 

116 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



dots, the Escape Route can appear reflexively anywhere The Mantle demands a level of respect. Add your 
in the Hollow. Either way, only characters who have con- character’s Mantle rating to any Social rolls you make 
tributed Merit dots to the Hollow and those to whom they against other members of her court and characters with 
give permission can use the Escape Route. the appropriate Court Goodwill.

Hidden Entry (••): When all members of a motley A character may learn the Contracts of her court as 
who have contributed Merit dots are inside the Hollow, long as she meets the Contract’s Mantle prerequisite (see 
the entrance evaporates. Rolls to find it or force entry p. 150). Should her Mantle fall, or should she adopt the 
while it is visible, including Clashes of Wills, suffer a two- Mantle of a new court, she might no longer meet the pre-
die penalty. The entrance reappears when one or more requisites for her Contracts; in that case, she must spend 
members of the motley depart. additional Glamour to activate those Contracts. 

Easy Access (•••): The Hollow has no permanent Members of each court gain an additional way to 
entrance. Instead, the character can access it by spending harvest Glamour. Each court also grants its own specific 
a single Glamour. This usually takes the form of a particu- benefits at each Mantle rating. Below are examples from 
lar whistle or knock, but it works on any unlocked door in the four Seasonal Courts.
the mundane world. A changeling exits her Hollow at the 
same location she entered from. Spring

Home Turf (•••): Either the changeling has spent The character gains a Glamour point whenever he 
long enough in her Hollow that she knows its every secret, oversteps his bounds to satisfy his personal desires.
or she simply resonates well with it. The changeling gains •	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
the Merit’s rating as a bonus to Initiative and Defense dots to mundane rolls to seduce or attract someone.
against any intruders that manage to make it inside. ••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 

Lethal Mien (••) dots when taking mundane actions that encour-
age or bring about over-indulgence.

Effect: The Hedge warped some element of your •••	 G ain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
character’s fae mien, and left him with wicked nails, sharp dots during mundane teamwork actions to help an 
teeth, or some other offensive trait. The changeling can ally achieve her goals.
inflict lethal damage while unarmed. If another power al-
ready gives him the capacity for lethal blows, such as the ••••	 Regain an additional Willpower point when you 
Beast seeming blessing, add one to his unarmed weapon would regain one through your character’s Needle.
modifier instead. •••••	 Once per chapter, you may convert a single Clari-

The character may choose whether to use the benefit ty Condition into a different, beneficial Condition 
of these claws, fangs, spurs, or other dangerous element of your choice. When you do, regain one Clarity. 
at will. Your character may use this to convert an ally’s 

Clarity Condition instead.
Mantle (• to •••••) Summer

When a changeling joins a court, she accepts all its Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she 
blessings and embodies it, the same way she does her own enacts her wrath and successfully furthers a goal.
seeming and kith. Mantle represents the mystical connec-
tion a changeling has to the elements and emotions of her •	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
chosen court. As her Mantle rises, she becomes a better dots to mundane rolls to intimidate or cow someone.
representation of what it is to be a courtier. A changeling ••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
with a high Mantle embodies the ideals of the court, and dots to mundane attack rolls when actively de-
others who belong to the court recognize her dedication fending her freehold against a fae threat.
and give her respect, even if it’s grudging. •••	 Gain general and ballistic armor equal to your 

Effect: As a character’s Mantle increases, her fae character’s Mantle dots, which stacks with worn 
mien changes to reflect it, showing both figurative and armor, when acting as a protector, bodyguard, or 
literal signs of the season. A character with Mantle (Win- champion for someone else.
ter) • might have a slight frigid breeze following her, while ••••	 Automatically succeed on attempts to break 
one with Mantle (Winter) ••• may have tiny snow flur- through mundane barriers or otherwise deal with 
ries surrounding her, and her skin is cold to the touch. At inanimate impediments.
Mantle (Winter) •••••, her presence causes and relieves •••••	 W hen defending a member of your character’s 
sorrow with equal measure depending on her mood, and freehold, her mundane attacks deal aggravated 
it always seems overcast when she is near. damage.

Merits 117



Autumn •••	 W hen your character surrenders in a fight, gain 
Your character gains a Glamour point whenever he over- bonus dice equal to her Mantle dots to any subse-

comes his fear to investigate something new and dangerous. quent Social actions for the rest of the scene.
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle dots ••••	 Spend a Glamour point to bind someone in their 

to mundane rolls to investigate the True Fae or Faerie. own misery. For the rest of the scene, any time the 
••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle target enters a fight, they suffer the Beaten Down 

dots to mundane rolls to intimidate or otherwise Tilt and must spend 2 Willpower to end it.
instill fear in someone. •••••	 Y our character ignores wound penalties. For each 

•••	 Reduce the Glamour cost of Contracts by one health box filled with lethal or aggravated dam-
when using them to subvert a True Fae or some- age, gain a one-die bonus on Physical actions, to a 
thing from Faerie. maximum of +5.

••••	 Once per story, reduce your character’s Goblin Manymask (•••)
Debt by his Mantle rating. Prerequisites: Wyrd 2+, Manipulation •••

•••••	 After a magical effect affects your character, you Effect: A changeling is usually stuck with the same 
may spend 2 Glamour to mimic that effect exact- Mask he left the Hedge with, an immutable combination 
ly, and may choose a new target. You must do this of remembered human traits. Some changelings develop 
within the same scene that he was affected. control over the appearance of their Masks.

Winter The character may spend a point of Glamour to 
Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she change his Mask permanently. He may make one change 

helps someone come to terms with their grief. per chapter per dot of Wyrd he possesses to any of the 
following: eye color, hair color, facial structure, or skin 

•	 Enemies suffer a penalty equal to your character’s tone; or he may remove notable scars or other features 
Mantle dots to rolls to notice her when she’s de- such as birthmarks, freckles, etc. At Wyrd 5+ he may 
liberately spying. create an entirely new Mask once per chapter by spend-

••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle ing one Glamour, mostly unbeholden to his existing fea-
dots when obscuring the truth. tures. While he can even change the sex of his Mask, 

118 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



height and build remain immutably tied to the shape that ability to perceive the world around him as he does. Ei-
lies beneath. ther of them can also spend a Willpower point to send a 

vague message via thought to the other; it comes across 
Market Sense (•) not in words, but fleeting impressions and snippets of im-

Effect: Understanding the value of a product is hard ages, and can only encompass fairly simple ideas. A fetch 
enough in the mortal world, but in the Hedge, relative worth could warn his changeling of a Huntsman’s impending ar-
is even more questionable. How does one weigh the impor- rival, but without any detail about when or how. Likewise, 
tance of a dozen cherished memories against a music box the changeling could threaten his fetch’s life, but couldn’t 
that only plays near ghosts? Goblins make all sorts of strange make any specific demands. Whenever the fetch uses this 
requests in exchange for Contracts, but your character knows connection to make the changeling’s life more dangerous 
how to navigate these exchanges better than others. or inconvenient, gain a Beat. 

Once per chapter, you may reduce your character’s Rigid Mask (•••)
Goblin Debt by one. 

Prerequisite: Subterfuge ••
Noblesse Oblige (• to •••) Effect: For your character, the protection of the Mask 

Prerequisite: Appropriate court Mantle • extends far beyond the usual mortal camouflage. Perhaps 
Effect: Your character knows how to harness the she can sense the subtle magic that turns her smile into 

power of his Mantle to inspire others. Any time your her Mask’s smile, or her true face is strongly connected 
character is in charge of a group of people who share his to the one that lets her interact with humanity. No one 
court, either through Mantle or Court Goodwill, he can fooled by the Mask knows when she’s lying or what she’s 
grant benefits to the group (but not to himself) for a scene feeling unless she allows it. Mortals automatically fail rolls 
by spending a Willpower point. The benefit conferred de- to notice these things, as do polygraphs and other mun-
pends on the court. Here are examples from the Seasonal dane lie-detecting devices. Supernatural creatures must 
Courts: engage in a Clash of Wills to notice her lies.

Spring: The team’s Initiative rolls gain a bonus equal Drawback: Intentionally dropping your character’s 
to the leader’s dots in this Merit. Mask deals her a point of lethal damage in addition to the 

normal rules (p. 83).
Summer: The team’s Resolve-based rolls gain a bo-

nus equal to the leader’s dots in this Merit. Stable Trod (• to •••••, Motley)
Autumn: The team’s Contract rolls gain a bonus Effect: Your character’s freehold has secured and main-

equal to the leader’s dots in this Merit. tained a trod (p. 201) with a rating equal to his Merit dots 
Winter: The team’s Composure-based rolls gain a in Stable Trod. The trod bestows two additional advantages 

bonus equal to the leader’s dots in this Merit. to those who have Hollows along it or travel it frequently:
Drawbacks: Being the leader is not easy. It means •	 Hollows along the trod gain an extra one-dot Hol-

that you are responsible for those under you and they look low enhancement (p. 116). The enhancement is 
to you for guidance. Those under your character’s com- the same for all such Hollows. This can benefit a 
mand gain a two-die bonus to Social rolls against him. number of Hollows equal to the Stable Trod Merit 
Pandemoniacal (• to •••) rating. This enhancement can bring the number 

of Hollow enhancements above the normal maxi-
Prerequisite: Wyrd 6+ mum a Hollow’s rating allows.
Effect: The changeling is more adept at inciting Bed-

lam than her fellows. Add the Merit’s rating as a dice bo- •	 Goblin fruit trees cultivated along the trod pro-
nus to any rolls she makes to incite Bedlam (see p. 110). duce additional fruit. You may roll your character’s 

dots in Stable Trod as a dice pool once per story. 
Parallel Lives (•••) Each success produces one additional generic fruit, 

which contains a point of Glamour.
Effects: The changeling is deeply connected to his 

fetch. Each experiences occasional flashes of the other’s 
emotional state when something affects one of them Token (•+, Motley)
strongly, and gains two bonus dice to use Empathy or Your character or motley has one or more tokens 
magic to read the other’s intentions, or to enter his Bas- (p. 222) — mystical items suffused with the power and 
tion. By spending a point of Willpower, either can ride danger of Faerie. Perhaps she made off with her Keeper’s 
along with the other’s senses for a number of minutes most prized possession as she fled out of spite, or found that 
equal to his Wyrd rating, losing his Defense and the twigs from the Hedge caught in her clothes became magi-

cal matchsticks upon her escape. Perhaps she traded away 

Merits 119



her name for an enchanted mirror at a Goblin Market. Per- Possible Workshop Specialties include (but are not 
haps she took the riding crop as a trophy when she killed limited to) Calligraphy, Carpentry, Blacksmithing, Auto-
the Huntsman, and now she’s driven to hunt her own kind. motive, Painting, or Goblin Fruit Farming. 
Whatever the case, choose one or more tokens with a total 
dot rating equal to her rating in this Merit. She may have Human Merits
more than five dots in this Merit, but no single token may 
have a rating higher than five. Allies (• to •••••, Motley)

You can purchase an oath-forged token (p. 224) by Effect: Allies help your character. They might be 
adding one dot to its effective rating; thus, you can’t pur- friends, employees, associates, or people your character 
chase a five-dot oath-forged token with this Merit. You has blackmailed. Each instance of this Merit represents 
can purchase a stolen token (p. 225) at an effective rating one type of ally. This could be an organization, a society, a 
of one dot lower than the token’s rating. Your character’s clique, or an individual. You can take this Merit multiple 
token can still have one of these origins without these op- times to represent different Allies. Your character might 
tions, without any mechanical effects. have Allies (Tumbledown Market) ••, Allies (Carter 

Crime Family) •••, and Allies (Catholic Church) •.
Touchstone (• to •••••) Each dot represents a level of influence in the group. 

Effect: Your character has multiple Touchstones. One dot constitutes small favors and passing influence. 
Each dot in the Touchstone Merit allows for an additional Three offers considerable influence, such as the police 
Touchstone. Write each one beside the next available overlooking a misdemeanor charge. Five dots stretches 
box to the right of the rightmost box with an associated the limits of the organization’s influence, as its leaders put 
Touchstone. If the last Clarity box already has a Touch- their own influence on the line for the character. This 
stone, you cannot purchase this Merit again. For more on could include things such as massive insider trading or 
Touchstones, see p. 98. fouling up a felony investigation. No matter the request, it 

Drawbacks: Losing attachment with Touchstones has to be something that organization could accomplish.
speeds the loss of Clarity. As well, if your character’s last The Storyteller assigns a rating between one and five 
Touchstone dies or is destroyed, his memories and night- to any favor asked. A character (or motley) can ask for 
mares of his durance intensify. favors that add up to her Allies rating without penalty 

in one chapter. If she extends her influence beyond that, 
Warded Dreams (• to •••) her player must roll Manipulation + Persuasion + Allies, 

Prerequisite: Resolve equal to dots in Warded with a penalty equal to the favor’s rating. If the roll is suc-
Dreams cessful, the group does as requested. Failed or successful, 

Effect: Whether through active mental discipline or the character (or motley) loses a dot of Allies, but Sanc-
natural stubbornness, your character’s dream Bastion is par- tity of Merits applies. On a dramatic failure, the organiza-
ticularly well fortified against intrusion. Each dot in Warded tion resents her and seeks retribution. On an exceptional 
Dreams increases the Bastion’s Fortification rating by one. success, she doesn’t lose the dot.

One additional favor a character can ask of her Allies 
Workshop (• to •••••, Motley) is to block another character’s Allies, Contacts, Mentor, 

Prerequisite: Hollow Retainer, or Status (if she knows the character possesses 
Effect: Your character maintains, within her Hollow, the relevant Merit). The favor’s rating is equal to the Mer-

a variety of equipment and tools that can help with the it dots blocked. As before, no roll is necessary unless the 
creation of natural and supernatural items. Whether in target’s Merit exceeds the character’s Allies. If the block 
the form of a forge with metallurgy tools, an artist’s loft, a succeeds, the target cannot use the blocked Merit during 
laboratory filled with beakers and crucibles, or an orchard the same chapter.
outfitted with the best gardening implements, your char- Alternate Identity (•, ••, or •••)
acter’s Hollow is outfitted with precisely the right things 
she needs to have on hand to create. Effect: Your character has established an alternate 

mundane identity. The level of this Merit determines the 
Each dot in this Merit represents equipment for one amount of scrutiny it can withstand. At one dot, the iden-

particular Craft Specialty. Thus, a Hollow with a three- tity is superficial and unofficial. For example, your char-
dot Workshop Merit might include equipment for black- acter uses an alias with a simple costume and adopts an 
smithing, weaving, and goblin fruit farming. Whenever accent. He hasn’t established the necessary paperwork 
a changeling uses the Workshop for Building Equipment to even approach a bureaucratic background check, let 
(p. 196) or other Crafts rolls with one of these Specialties, alone pass. At two dots, he’s supported his identity with 
she gains a bonus equal to her Merit dots to her rolls. paperwork and identification. It’s not liable to stand up to 

120 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



extensive research, but it’ll turn away private investiga- Garnering information via Contacts requires a Ma-
tors and internet hobbyists. At three dots, the identity can nipulation + Social Skill roll, depending on the meth-
pass thorough inspection. The identity has been deeply en- od the character uses, and the relationship between the 
trenched in relevant databases, with subtle flourishes and characters. The Storyteller should give a bonus or pen-
details to make it seem real even to trained professionals. alty, dependent on how relevant the information is to that 

Additionally, the Merit reflects time the character particular Contact, whether accessing the information is 
has spent honing his persona. At one or two dots, he gains dangerous, and if the character has maintained good re-
a one-die bonus to all Subterfuge rolls to defend the iden- lations or done favors for the Contact. These modifiers 
tity. At three dots, he gains +2 instead. should range from −3 to +3 in most cases. If successful, 

You can purchase this Merit multiple times, each the Contact provides the information.
time representing an additional identity. You may purchase this Merit multiple times to reflect 

different sources.
Anonymity (• to •••••)

Danger Sense (••)
Prerequisite: Cannot have Fame.
Effect: Your character lives off the grid. She could Effect: You gain a +2 modifier on reflexive Wits + 

have been in Arcadia or the Hedge for decades, making Composure rolls for your character to detect an impend-
new identification difficult. This means she must make ing ambush. Your character’s reflexes are honed to the 
purchases with cash or falsified credit cards. She avoids point where nothing is shocking.
any official authoritative influence in her affairs. Any at- Demolisher (• to •••)
tempts to find her by paper trail suffer a one-die penalty 
per dot purchased in this Merit. Prerequisites: Strength or Intelligence •••

Drawbacks: Your character cannot purchase the Effect: Your character has an innate feel for the weak 
Fame Merit. This also may limit Status purchases, if the points in objects. When damaging an object, she ignores 
character cannot provide sufficient identification for the one point of the object’s Durability per dot in this Merit.
roles she wishes to take. Direction Sense (•)
Common Sense (•••) Effect: Your character has an innate sense of direc-

Effect: Your character has an exceptionally sound tion, and is always aware of her location in space. She al-
and rational mind. With a moment’s thought, she can ways knows which cardinal direction she faces, and never 
weigh potential courses of action and outcomes. suffers penalties to navigate or find her way in the mun-

dane world. This Merit has no effect in the Hedge.
Once per session as an instant action, you may ask 

the Storyteller one of the following questions about a task Eidetic Memory (••)
at hand or course of action. Roll Wits + Composure. If 
you succeed, the Storyteller must answer to the best of Effect: Your character recalls events and details with 
her ability. If you fail, you get no answer. With an excep- pinpoint accuracy. You do not have to make rolls for your 
tional success, you can ask an additional question. With character to remember past experiences. When making 
dramatic failure, the Storyteller can give you a piece of Intelligence + Composure (or relevant Skill) rolls to recall 
false advice. If you follow that “intuition” regardless of minute facts from swaths of information, take a +2 bonus.
risk, take a Beat. Encyclopedic Knowledge (••)
•	 What is the worst choice? Effect: Choose a Skill. Due to an immersion in aca-
•	 What do I stand to lose here? demia, pop culture, or a hobby obsession, your character 

has collected limitless factoids about the topic, even if she 
•	 What’s the safest choice? has no dots in the Skill.

You can make an Intelligence + Wits roll at any time 
•	 Am I chasing a worthless lead? your character is dealing with her area of interest. On a 

successful roll, the Storyteller must give a relevant fact 
Contacts (•, Motley) or detail about the issue at hand. Your character knows 

Effect: Contacts provide your character with informa- this fact, but you must explain within the scope of your 
tion. Each instance of this Merit represents a sphere or or- character’s background why she knows it. For example, for 
ganization with which the character can garner information. Encyclopedic Knowledge (Science): “Neil deGrasse Tyson 
Contacts do not provide services, only information. This may described that particular mutation on Cosmos.”
be face to face, via email, by telephone, or even by séance.

Merits 121



Etiquette (• to •••••; Style) Fast Reflexes (• to •••) 
Prerequisites: Composure •••, Socialize •• Prerequisite: Wits ••• or Dexterity •••
Effect: Your character knows her way around soci- Effect: Gain +1 Initiative per dot.

ety, customs, and traditions. More importantly, she can 
use this talent to make or break reputations. This Merit Fast-Talking (• to •••••; Style)
applies to any social interactions where etiquette, style, Prerequisites: Manipulation •••, Subterfuge ••
poise, and reputation carry weight, and uses the Social Effect: Your character talks circles around listeners. 
maneuvering rules on p. 191. She speaks a mile a minute and often leaves her targets 

Bless His Heart (•): Your character always con- reeling, but nodding in agreement.
siders her words well. No matter how vile, the things Always Be Closing (•): With the right leading phras-
she says come off as defensible and respectful. When a es, your character can direct a mark to say what she wants, 
character engages yours in a Social interaction, you may when she wants. This trips the mark into vulnerable posi-
opt to use your character’s Socialize score instead of the tions. When a mark contests or resists your character’s So-
lower of her Resolve and Composure to determine her cial interactions, apply a –1 to his Resolve or Composure.
starting Doors.

Jargon (••): Your character confuses her mark using 
Losing Your Religion (••): When your character complex terminology. You may apply one relevant Spe-

lets loose and insults someone, she leaves mouths agape. cialty to any Social roll you make, even if the Specialty 
When tearing down a target verbally, use 8-again, and isn’t tied to the Skill in use.
take a two-die bonus to the roll. Afterwards, move the 
interaction one step down on the impressions chart. Devil’s Advocacy (•••): Your character often poses 

arguments she doesn’t agree with in order to challenge a 
In High Cotton (•••): Your character cultivates mark’s position and keep him from advancing discussion. 

standing and respect, and carries it like a knight wears You can reroll one failed Subterfuge roll per scene.
armor. You may apply one relevant Status or Fame Merit 
to rolls to contest Social interactions. Other Merits may Salting (••••): Your character can position herself so 
apply with Storyteller permission. that a mark pursues a non-issue or something unimportant 

to her. When your character opens a Door using conversa-
Half-Cocked (••••): Your character is always prepared. tion (Persuasion, Subterfuge, Empathy, etc.) you may spend 

On the other hand, others are not. In a new Social interac- a Willpower point to immediately open another Door.
tion, if the impression is good, excellent, or perfect, ignore 
the subject’s Resolve and Composure on the first roll. Patron’s Privilege (•••••): Your character can take 

advantage of her mark’s greed or zeal. When the mark does 
Grace Under Fire (•••••): While your character particularly well, it’s because your character was there to set 

may not always win, she never looks bad. If a character him up and to subsequently tear him down. If a target regains 
opens all her Doors, and you opt to offer an alternative, Willpower from his Vice or similar trait while your character is 
his player chooses three Conditions. You choose which present, you may immediately roll Manipulation + Subterfuge 
one your character receives. to open a Door, regardless of the interval or impression level.

Fame (• to •••) Fighting Finesse (••)
Effect: Your character is recognized within a certain Prerequisites: Dexterity •••, a Specialty in Weap-

sphere, for a certain skill, or because of some past action onry or Brawl
or stroke of luck. This can mean favors and attention, but 
it can also mean negative attention and scrutiny. When Effect: Choose a Specialty in Weaponry or Brawl 
choosing the Merit, define what your character is known when you purchase this Merit. Your character’s extensive 
for. One dot reflects local recognition or reputation training in that particular weapon or style has allowed 
within a confined subculture. Two dots means regional them to benefit more from their alacrity and agility than 
recognition by a wide swath of people. Three dots means their strength. You may substitute your character’s Dexter-
worldwide recognition by anyone who might have been ity for her Strength when making rolls with that Specialty.
exposed to the source of the fame. Each dot adds a die You can purchase this Merit multiple times to gain its 
to any Social rolls among those your character’s celebrity benefit with multiple Specialties.
impresses. Fixer (••)

Drawback: Any rolls to find or identify the character 
in the mundane world enjoy a one-die bonus per dot of Prerequisites: Contacts ••, Wits •••
the Merit. If the character has Alternate Identity, she can Effect: Your character is people who knows people. 
mitigate this drawback. A character with Fame cannot She can not only get in touch with the right people to 
have the Anonymity Merit. do a job, but she can get them at the best possible prices. 

122 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



When hiring a service (p. 325), reduce the Availability Language (•) 
score of the service by one dot. Effect: Your character is skilled with an additional 
Fleet of Foot (• to •••) language, beyond her native tongue. Your character can 

speak, read, and write in that language. 
Prerequisite: Athletics •• Choose a new language each time you buy this Merit.
Effect: Gain +1 Speed per dot, and anyone pursuing 

your character suffers a −1 per dot to any foot chase rolls. Library (• to •••, Motley) 
Giant (•••) Effect: Your character has access to a plethora of 

information about a given topic. When purchasing this 
Effect: Your character is massive. She’s well over Merit, choose a Mental Skill. The Library covers that pur-

six feet tall, and crowds part when she approaches. view. On any extended roll involving the Skill in ques-
She’s Size 6, and gains +1 Health. Normally this is only tion, add the dots in this Merit. 
available at character creation, but encounters with fae You can purchase this Merit multiple times to reflect 
magic or visits to Arcadia could offer opportunities for different Skills. 
it as well.

Drawback: Buying clothing is a nightmare. Fitting Lucid Dreamer (••)
into small spaces is difficult at best. Prerequisites: Non-changeling, Resolve •••
Inspiring (•••) Effect: Whether because of a natural talent or men-

tal training and practice, your character can roll to enter 
Prerequisites: Presence ••• the Gate of Ivory when he sleeps, as a changeling does 
Effect: Your character’s passion inspires those around (p. 215). He can’t engage in oneiromancy, but if success-

her to greatness. With a few words, she can redouble a ful, he knows he’s dreaming and can physically wake vol-
group’s confidence or move them to action. untarily as the Lost do.

Make a Presence + Expression roll. A small group of 
listeners levies a −1 penalty, a small crowd a −2, and a Mentor (• to •••••)
large crowd a −3. Listeners gain the Inspired Condition. Effect: This Merit gives your character a teacher who 
The character may not use this Merit on herself. provides advice and guidance. He acts on your character’s 

behalf, often in the background, and sometimes without 
Interdisciplinary Specialty (•) your character’s knowledge. While Mentors can be highly 

Prerequisites: Skill at ••• or higher with a Specialty competent, they want something in return for their ser-
Effect: Choose a Specialty that your character pos- vices. The dot rating determines the Mentor’s capabili-

sesses when you purchase this Merit. You can apply the ties, and to what extent he’ll aid your character.
+1 from that Specialty on any Skill with at least one When establishing a Mentor, determine what the 
dot, provided it’s justifiable within the scope of the fic- Mentor wants from your character. This should be per-
tion. For example, a doctor with a Medicine Specialty in sonally important to him, and it should reflect the dot 
Anatomy may be able to use it when targeting a specific rating chosen. A one-dot Mentor might be incapable of 
body part with Weaponry, but could not with a general dealing with modern society, and want to live vicarious-
strike. ly through your character. This might mean coming to 

him and telling stories of her exploits. A five-dot Mentor 
Iron Stamina (• to •••) would want something astronomical, such as an oath to 

Prerequisites: Stamina ••• or Resolve ••• procure an ancient, cursed artifact that may or may not 
Effect: Each dot eliminates a negative modifier (on a exist, in order to prevent a prophesized death.

one-for-one basis) when resisting the effects of fatigue or Choose three Skills the Mentor possesses. You can 
injury. For example: A character with Iron Stamina •• substitute Resources for one of these Skills. Once per ses-
can ignore up to a −2 modifier brought on by fatigue. The sion, the character may ask her Mentor for a favor. The fa-
Merit also counteracts the effects of wound penalties. So, vor must involve one of those Skills, or be within the scope 
if all of your character’s Health boxes are filled (which nor- of his Resources. The Mentor commits the favor (often 
mally imposes a −3 penalty to his actions) and he has Iron asking for a commensurate favor in return), and if a roll is 
Stamina •, reduce those penalties to −2. This Merit can- required, the Mentor is automatically considered to have 
not be used to gain positive modifiers for actions, only to successes equal to his dot rating. Alternately, you may ask 
cancel out negative ones. the Storyteller to have the Mentor act on your character’s 

behalf, without her knowing or initiating the request.

Merits 123



Parkour (• to •••••, Style) ••	 C ontinuing Education: With the repeated efforts 
Prerequisites: Dexterity •••, Athletics •• in her field of choice, your character tends toward 

greater successes. When making a roll with her 
Effect: Your character is a trained and proficient free Asset Skills, she benefits from the 9-again quality.

runner. Free running is the art of moving fluidly through 
urban environments with complex leaps, bounds, running •••	 Breadth of Knowledge: Due to her advancement 
tricks, and vaults. This is the type of sport popularized in in her field, she’s picked up a number of particular 
modern action films, where characters are unhindered by bits of information and skill unique to her work. 
fences, walls, construction equipment, cars, or anything Choose a third Asset Skill, and take two Special-
else the city puts in their way. ties in your character’s Asset Skills.

Flow (•): Your character reacts instinctively to any ••••	 On-the-Job Training: With the resources at her 
obstacles with leaps, jumps, and scaling techniques. When disposal, your character has access to extensive 
in a foot chase, subtract your Parkour from the successes educational tools and mentorship. Take a Skill 
needed to pursue or evade. Also, ignore environmental dot in an Asset Skill. Whenever you purchase a 
penalties to Athletics rolls equal to your Parkour rating. new Asset Skill dot, take a Beat.

Cat Leap (••): Your character falls with outstand- •••••	 The Routine: With such extensive experience in 
ing grace. When using a Dexterity + Athletics roll to her field, she has honed her Asset Skills to a fine 
mitigate damage from falling, your character gains one edge, and she’s almost guaranteed at least a marginal 
automatic success. Additionally, add your Parkour rating success. Before rolling, spend a Willpower point to 
to the threshold of damage that can be removed through apply the rote action quality to an Asset Skill. This 
this roll. Parkour will not mitigate damage from a termi- allows you to reroll all the failed dice on the first roll.
nal-velocity fall. Pusher (•)

Wall Run (•••): When climbing, your character can 
run upward for some distance before having to tradition- Prerequisite: Persuasion ••
ally climb. Without rolling, your character scales 10 feet Effect: Your character tempts and bribes as second 
+ five feet per dot of Athletics as an instant action, rather nature. Any time a mark in a Social interaction accepts 
than the normal 10 feet. his soft leverage (p. 193), improve his Impression as if he’d 

Expert Traceur (••••): Parkour has become second satisfied her Vice as well as moving the Impression up on 
nature for your character. By spending a Willpower point, the chart as usual.
you may designate one Athletics roll to run, jump, or Resources (• to •••••, Motley)
climb as a rote action (reroll all failed dice once). On any 
turn during which you use this ability, you may not apply Effect: This Merit reflects your character’s disposable 
your character’s Defense to oncoming attacks. income. She might live in an upscale condo, but if her 

income is tied up, she might have little money to throw 
Freeflow (•••••): Your character’s Parkour is now around. Characters are assumed to have basic necessities 

muscle memory. She can move without thinking, in a without Resources.
Zenlike state. The character must successfully meditate 
(p. 170) in order to establish Freeflow. Once established, The dot rating determines the relative amount of dis-
your character is capable of taking Athletics actions re- posable funding the character has available. One dot is a 
flexively once per turn. By spending a point of Willpower little spending money here and there. Two dots is a comfort-
on an Athletics roll in a foot chase, gain three successes able, middle-class wage. Three is a nicer, upper-middle-class 
instead of three dice. life. Four is moderately wealthy. Five is filthy rich.

Every item has an Availability rating (p. 322). Once per 
Professional Training  chapter, your character can procure an item at her Resources 
(• to •••••) level or lower, without issue. Obtaining an item one Avail-

Effect: Your character has extensive training in a par- ability above her Resources reduces her effective Resources 
ticular profession, which offers distinct advantages in a hand- by one dot for a full month, since she has to rapidly liquidate 
ful of fields. When choosing this Merit, choose or create a funds. She can procure items two Availability below her Re-
Profession for your character. Mark the two Asset Skills on sources without limit (within reason). For example, a char-
your character sheet. The advantages of Professional Train- acter with Resources •••• can procure as many Availability 
ing relate directly to those Asset Skills. •• disposable cellphones as she needs.

•	 N etworking: At the first level of Professional Resources are available to the entire motley collec-
Training, your character builds connections with- tively if purchased as a group. If one character makes an 
in her chosen field. Take two dots of Contacts re- extravagant purchase during a chapter, it reduces avail-
lating to that field. able Resources for the rest of the group. 

124 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Retainer (• to •••••, Motley) Drawbacks: In addition to the lower Health, some peo-
Effect: Your character has an assistant, sycophant, ser- ple might overlook your character or not take him seriously.

vant, or follower on whom she can rely. Establish who this Staff (• to •••••, Motley)
companion is and how she acquired him. It may be as simple 
as a paycheck. He might owe your character his life. However Effect: Your character has a crew of workers or assis-
it happened, your character has a hold on him. tants at her disposal. They may be housekeepers, design-

A Retainer is more reliable than a Mentor and more ers, research assistants, animators, cheap thugs, or what-
loyal than an Ally. On the other hand, a Retainer is a lone ever else makes sense. For every dot in this Merit, choose 
person, less capable and influential than the broader Merits. one type of assistant, and one Skill. At any reasonable 

time, her staff can take actions using that Skill. These 
The Merit’s dot rating reflects the Retainer’s relative actions automatically garner a single success on minor, 

competency. A one-dot Retainer is mildly useful, mostly for re- mundane activities. Note that you may have employees 
liably taking on menial tasks; sometimes you don’t need to be without requiring the Staff Merit. Staff simply adds a me-
wowed, you just need to get a thing from point A to point B. chanical advantage for those groups.
A three-dot Retainer is a professional in his field, someone ca-
pable in his line of work. A five-dot Retainer is one of the best Status (• to •••••, Motley) 
in his class. If a Retainer needs to make a roll, and it’s within Effect: Your character or Motley has standing, mem-
his field, double the dot rating of the Merit and use it as a dice bership, authority, control over, or respect from a group or 
pool. For anything else, use the dot rating as a dice pool. organization. This can reflect official standing, or merely 

You can purchase this Merit multiple times to repre- informal respect. No matter the source, your character 
sent multiple Retainers. If a motley shares access to the enjoys certain privileges within that structure. 
Retainer, any character can call upon him if he isn’t cur- Status only allows advantages within the confines 
rently indisposed. of the group reflected in the Merit. Status (Organized 
Safe Place (• to •••••, Motley) Crime) won’t help if your character wants an official, con-

cealed-carry firearms permit, for example. 
Effect: Your character has somewhere in the mun-

dane world she can go where she can feel secure. While Status provides two major advantages. First, your 
she may have enemies that could attack her there, she’s character can apply her Status to any Social roll with those 
prepared and has the upper hand. The dot rating reflects over whom she has authority or sway. Second, she has ac-
the security of the place. Equipment represents the actual cess to group facilities, resources, and funding. Depending 
location, the luxury, and the size. A one-dot Safe Place on the group, red tape and requisitioning processes could 
could simply be out of sight, out of mind, or feature minor limit this. It’s also dependent on the resources the par-
security systems. A five-dot could have a security crew, ticular group has available. 
infrared scanners at every entrance, or trained dogs. Each Each instance of this Merit reflects standing in a dif-
place can be an apartment, a mansion, or a hidey-hole. ferent group or organization. Each affords its own unique 

A Safe Place gives all owners an Initiative bonus benefits. As you increase your dot ratings, your character 
equal to the total Merit dots while inside. rises in prominence in the relevant group.

Any efforts to breach the Safe Place suffer a penalty Drawback: Status requires upkeep, and often, regu-
equal to the Merit dots invested. If the character desires, lar duties. If your character does not uphold these duties, 
the Safe Place can include traps that cause intruders lethal she may lose the Status. The dots are not accessible until 
damage equal to the Merit dots, or bashing damage equal the character re-establishes her standing. In our Orga-
to twice the Merit’s dots. The traps may be avoided with a nized Crime example, your character may be expected to 
Dexterity + Larceny roll, penalized by the Safe Place rating. pay protection money, offer tribute to a higher authority, 

or undertake felonious activities. 
Each instance of this Merit reflects a different place.

Striking Looks (• or ••)
Small-Framed (••)

Effect: Your character is stunning, alarming, com-
Effect: Your character is diminutive. He’s not even five manding, repulsive, threatening, charming, or otherwise 

feet tall, and it’s easy to walk into him without noticing. He’s worthy of attention. Determine how your character looks 
Size 4, and thus has one fewer Health box. He gains +2 to and how people react to that. For one dot, your charac-
any rolls to hide or go unnoticed, and this bonus might ap- ter gets +1 on any Social rolls that his looks would influ-
ply any time being smaller would be an advantage, such as ence. For two dots, it’s +2. Depending on the particulars, 
crawling through smaller spaces. Normally this is only avail- this might influence Expression, Intimidation, Persuasion, 
able at character creation, but encounters with fae magic or Subterfuge, or other rolls.
visits to Arcadia could offer opportunities for it as well.

Merits 125



Drawback: Attention is a double-edged sword. Any Contract allowing an Elemental to create lava traps in 
rolls to spot, notice, or remember your character gain the her path lets a Wizened rapidly craft small clockwork 
same dice bonus. Sometimes, your character will draw monsters to attack pursuers. Players are encouraged to 
unwanted attention in social situations. This could cause tailor Contracts’ effects to their characters: When this 
further complications. character invokes Light-Shy, does she hear her Keeper’s 

raspy whispers, or perhaps see her doom spelled out in 
Sympathetic (••) the shadows?

Effect: Your character has a pitiful face, a well-honed Unless otherwise noted, Contracts last for the cur-
sob story, or is otherwise really good at letting others get rent scene. A changeling can end a Contract at will. A 
close. At the beginning of a Social maneuvering attempt character can’t shed Conditions a Contract inflicts — ei-
(p. 191), you may accept a Condition such as Leveraged ther as part of its normal effect, or via dramatic failure — 
or Swooned to immediately eliminate two of the subject’s by ending the power prematurely; she must resolve them 
Doors. normally. Tilts end when the Contract that inflicted them 

does, if the target doesn’t end them sooner. See Appen-
Trained Observer (• or •••) dix 4 (p. 333) for Conditions and Appendix 3 (p. 327) for 

Prerequisite: Wits or Composure ••• Tilts. If a Contract costs more Glamour than the charac-
Effect: Your character spent years in the field, catch- ter can spend per turn based on her Wyrd, she may spend 

ing tiny details and digging for secrets. She might not Glamour over multiple turns and invoke the Contract 
have a better chance of finding things, but she has a when the last required Glamour is spent.
better chance of finding important things. Any time you If a changeling fails to invoke the effects of a Con-
make a Perception roll (usually Wits + Composure), you tract (i.e. the player didn’t roll any successes on the in-
benefit from the 9-again quality. With the three-dot ver- vocation roll), she must still pay its cost. Sometimes, the 
sion, you get 8-again. target contests a Contract’s invocation roll. A willing tar-

get may waive this contesting roll; targets who do contest 
True Friend (•••) it do so reflexively.

Effect: Your character has a true friend. While that 
friend may have specific functions covered by other Merits Clash of Wills
(Allies, Contacts, etc.), True Friend represents a deeper, truly When two changelings bring their powers to bear 
trusting relationship that cannot be breached. Unless your against one another, it’s not always clear which ability 
character does something egregious to cause it, her True trumps another. Likewise, a Contract may have effects 
Friend will not betray her. The Storyteller cannot kill a True that oppose the effects of a vampire’s Discipline or a 
Friend as part of a plot without your express permission. Any mage’s spells. When the effects of supernatural abilities 
rolls to influence a True Friend against your character suffer clash in this way, it’s a Clash of Wills.
a −5 dice penalty. In addition, once per story your character Each player involved rolls his character’s Wyrd + an 
can regain one spent Willpower by having a meaningful in- appropriate Finesse Attribute. Whoever scores the most 
teraction with her True Friend. successes wins; his power takes effect as normal while 

C the conflicting effects fail. Ties reroll until one player has 
ontracts accrued more successes than all others. A character can 

Faerie is horrible, beautiful, and upside down. Mortal only spend a point of Willpower on the Clash roll if he 
notions of time, space, and physics cannot constrain it. and his opponents are physically present, and he is aware 
The changeling, for better or worse, is part of this strange that abilities are in conflict, which may require kenning 
legacy. True Fae and Lost courtiers have all gone before (p. 107) or other magic. Other supernatural creatures 
her, striking bargains she too may invoke. Alternately, she have their own dice pools for Clashes, detailed in their 
can seek out the wily goblins to strike a bargain of her own. respective books.
Whichever path she chooses, she will never be the same: Long-lasting effects add a level of supernatural en-
A Contract isn’t just something the changeling uses — it’s durance, per the following table.
part of what she is. Entering a Contract with smoke makes 
the world seem a little bit darker, while entering a Contract Modifier Duration
with stone gives her skin a mottled gray appearance. When +1 Effect would last a night
the changeling invokes a Contract, she perceives the power 

+2 Effect would last a week
it was bargained with, be it as whispers in flames, faces in 
stone, or shadowy fingers running down her spine. +3 Effect would last a month

While Contracts share the same mechanics from +4 Effect would last a year
changeling to changeling, their outward effects vary. A 

126 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Loopholes Arcadian Contracts are divided into six Regalia, 
which are thematic groupings representative of the most 

Every Contract has a Loophole that lets the change- common of the original vast pacts the Others made with 
ling invoke the Contract’s basic effect at no Glamour cost abstract concepts to secure their power. These are:
(though he must pay Willpower costs, and any cost as-
sociated with seeming benefits, as normal). The character •	 Crown for leadership and rulership.
can also choose to fulfill the Loophole and still spend one 
point of Glamour, to change a Contract’s invocation roll •	 Jewels for manipulation and temptation.
from instant to reflexive. He can invoke a given Contract •	 Mirror for perception and self-transformation.
only once per turn reflexively, but may add other reflex-
ive Contracts, including those made reflexive by using the •	 Shield for defense and protection.
Loophole and paying Glamour for each.

•	 Steed for movement both seen and unseen, and all 
Arcadian Contracts manner of creatures.

The oldest Contracts hail from the dawn of Arcadia, •	 Sword for strength and aggression.
when the True Fae bargained with the world to let them, or 
sometimes their pawns, move beyond the laws constraining Every seeming has a favored Regalia, and the player 
mere mortals. While the Gentry rarely care for the other chooses a second favored Regalia for her character.
citizens of Faerie, their omnipresence ensures these bargains Regalia are further divided into Common Contracts 
also apply to their subjects. Any citizen of Arcadia, including and Royal Contracts, which represent the lesser bargains 
changelings, may claim these rights as Contracts. This claim the True Fae struck on behalf of their servants, and the 
requires conscious effort, like finding a teacher, reading a greater bargains they struck for themselves. Common 
tome detailing the Contract, or meditating extensively upon Arcadian Contracts cost 3 Experiences each, and Royal 
the nature of the deal. It also requires acknowledging her sta- Arcadian Contracts cost 4 Experiences each. Purchasing 
tus as a denizen of Arcadia, something a changeling might a Contract from a favored Regalia subtracts one from the 
find empowering as she takes control of her fate, or that might Experience cost.
serve as a painful reminder that she is no longer quite human.

Contracts 127



This Contract does not work if the building’s owner or 
main resident also knows Hostile Takeover, as he is another 

Contracts  beneficiary of it.
and Clarity Beast: The Beast persuades animal sentries to ac-

tively serve her.
Changeling characters have Clarity, mortals 
Integrity, and vampires Humanity. Unless a Fairest: The Fairest’s player gains two bonus dice on 
Contract specifically states that it only works a Clash of Wills with a supernatural dwelling’s owner.
on other Lost, “Clarity” means “Clarity and Loophole: The changeling carries an object with her 
other such traits that measure a kind of mental that belongs to the owner or main resident.
or emotional stability.” Where a Contract 
would make a Clarity attack, it forces an equiv- Mask of Superiority (Common)
alent level of breaking point for these other 
creatures; the Storyteller decides the exact The changeling is always important, even to people 
effects where questions arise. These Contracts who don’t know him. He struts into a locale as if he owns 
never work on beings like Prometheans with the place when he invokes this Contract.
traits that measure something else entirely. Cost: 1 Glamour

Dice Pool: Presence + Subterfuge + Wyrd
Action: Instant

Every Arcadian Contract has seeming benefits, which Roll Results
invoke effects in addition to the basic Contract. If a Success: People who see the character believe he is 
changeling belongs to that seeming, she gains the effect for a respected member of an organization they belong to, 
free upon purchasing the Contract. Otherwise, she may as though he had dots in its Status Merit equal to his 
learn it from a teacher using Pupil’s Devotion (below), and Presence. If the changeling affects multiple people, they 
pay 1 Experience for it. A player can purchase as many all believe him to be a member of the same organization; 
seeming effects per Contract as she wishes and can invoke the player chooses one target as his primary to deter-
none, any, or all of them, as long as she pays all their costs. mine which organization. If he acts out of character for a 
The Contracts below present two seeming benefits each, member or doesn’t know something a member would, his 
but Storytellers are encouraged to add their own. player rolls Presence + Subterfuge contested by the other 

Crown characters’ Wits + Empathy to keep them from realizing 
he’s a fraud.

Changelings who grasp the Crown represent the best Exceptional Success: The changeling instead con-
and worst of their kind. They make glorious leaders — vinces people he is a trusted ally come for a tour, as 
fair, wise, and emboldening the Lost with their presence though he also had the Allies Merit equal to his Presence. 
— or tyrants forcing other Lost and the world itself to fit He gets the same benefits as a member, but is given a pass 
their vision. Fairest, rising above others, favor Crown. if he doesn’t know all the inner workings of the organiza-

Hostile Takeover (Common) tion, and the player only has to roll for the changeling to 
stay in character if he does something really absurd.

The True Fae are home wherever they wish, and the Failure: The Contract fails.
changeling likewise forces any dwelling to accept her presence.

Dramatic Failure: Members of the organization take 
Cost: 2 Glamour umbrage with the changeling’s obvious lies, and immedi-
Dice Pool: None ately become hostile toward him.
Action: Instant Fairest: Reduce all starting Doors by one for purpos-
Effects: The changeling declares her right to be on the es of any Social maneuvering the changeling initiates on 

premises, persuading the home that she belongs there. She affected characters.
may then bypass any mundane security systems — she does Ogre: The Bruiser appears as security for the organi-
not show on cameras, for instance — and its doors auto- zation; his player adds the successes rolled to invoke the 
matically open for her. Animals and hobgoblin sentries stay Contract as bonus dice to Intimidation rolls against any-
out of her way. The changeling can extend this Contract’s one who believes the ruse, to a maximum of +5.
benefits to a number of companions equal to her Presence, Loophole: The changeling loosely dresses to copy the 
as long as they remain in her line of sight. organization’s dress code. This does not have to be identical: 

Targeting a Hollow, or another supernatural dwelling, plain white slacks, shirt, and hat work as a marine uniform.
triggers a Clash of Wills with the owner or main resident. 

128 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Paralyzing Presence  
(Common)

The changeling is magnificent and horrible, captivat- Pupil’s Devotion
ing his target and rendering her unable to move. He must A changeling can learn an Arcadian Contract 
have her attention, even if only fleetingly, for this Con- more easily by seeking a teacher. The teacher 
tract to take effect. must know the Contract she wishes to learn, 

Cost: 2 Glamour and have it as part of his favored Regalia.  
Dice Pool: Presence + Intimidation + Wyrd vs. After swearing a personal oath (p. 213) to 

her teacher, the character can learn the Con-
Composure + Wyrd tract at favored cost even if it’s not part of her 

Action: Contested own favored Regalia. The particulars of this 
Roll Results oath are unique to each pledge, and the char-

acter must swear a separate oath for every 
Success: The changeling grows larger, more beautiful Contract she wishes to learn. Characters can 

and terrible, in the target’s mind and overwhelms her: She also learn a Contract’s seeming benefits this 
suffers the Insensate Tilt. way from a teacher of the right seeming.

Exceptional Success: The victim also suffers the 
Cowed Condition.

Failure: The Contract fails. where he chooses, becomes immune to damage inflicted 
Dramatic Failure: The target is supremely unim- with its element or material, and adds +1L to his weapon 

pressed, inflicting the Shaken Condition on the changeling. modifier on attack rolls.
Darkling: The Mountebank’s player may use Ma- Fairest: The Sovereign may spend a Willpower 

nipulation instead of Presence to invoke this Contract. point to bind the servitor to his Hollow (or any Hollow 
Fairest: The Unicorn’s player gains a three-die bonus he shares). As long as the servitor remains within the 

to invoke this Contract. Hollow, it stays animate. The Fairest can have only one 
Loophole: The victim is otherwise alone, and the bound servitor at a time.

changeling touches him. Loophole: The changeling performed a significant favor 
for the element or material in this scene, such as thoroughly 

Summon the Loyal Servant cleaning a public fountain or polishing a large stone statue.
(Common)

Tumult (Common)
The changeling creates a small, loyal servitor out of 

ephemeral substances and discarded items. The changeling controls shards of dreams and night-
Cost: 1 Glamour mares to attack his foe’s mind. He inscribes his target’s 

true name on a leaf, and folds it into an origami bird. He 
Dice Pool: None must be able to see his target.
Action: Instant Cost: 2 Glamour
Effects: The changeling cuts his hand and lets a drop- Dice Pool: Presence + Empathy + Wyrd − Resolve

let of blood fall onto the substance of his choice: The fire 
from a lit candle, the shadows hiding in the corner, and a Action: Instant
pile of leaves and twigs are all valid targets. The substance Duration: Instant
animates into a small servant, which is as intelligent as a Roll Results
dog and can carry out simple commands. It’s also percep-
tive enough to notice threats to the changeling or itself. Success: The first fold reveals whether the target 

suffers from any of the following Conditions: Disorient-
The servitor has Power 1, Finesse 3, and Resistance 1, ed, Guilty, Lost, Paranoid, Obsession, Spooked, Stoic, or 

with derivative traits as if it were a Hedge ghost (p. 247), but it Withdrawn. As the changeling keeps folding, he may in-
only possesses iron as a frailty and doesn’t gain any Influences flict one of these effects on the target per success rolled:
or Numina. The changeling chooses its shape, and a Size be-
tween 1 and 7. The servitor has natural advantages granted •	 Inflict one of the temporary Conditions above on 
by its makeup; for example, a fire servitor cannot be burnt. It the target.
remains animate for one scene, or until it is destroyed.

•	 Delay the effect of this Contract until a specified 
Elemental: The Sprite may merge with the servitor trigger occurs; multiple successes may specify mul-

by spending another Glamour point and one Willpower tiple separate triggers. 
point. He substitutes the creature’s Attributes for his 

Contracts 129



Exceptional Success: Inflict one extra effect. Failure: The summons fails.
Failure: The Contract fails. Dramatic Failure: The character retrieves an item 
Dramatic Failure: The changeling gains one of the with the Volatile Condition, or a summoned hobgoblin 

Conditions listed, of the player’s choice. means him ill, though it may conceal its enmity to lure him 
Fairest: The Fairest adds these Conditions to the list: into a trap.

Inspired, Swooned, Wanton. Darkling: A Wisp may pull an object, or summon the 
Ogre: The Ogre adds these Conditions to the list: hobgoblin, out of any sufficiently large dark space or shadow.

Bestial, Cowed, Frightened. Fairest: The summoned hobgoblin serves the change-
Loophole: The changeling planted an origami bird ling until the sun next crosses the horizon, even if he pays 

on the target’s person in this scene. no attention to it.
Loophole: The changeling pulls an object from a lo-

Discreet Summons (Royal) cation belonging to, or guarded by, an enemy. He prom-
The changeling summons an object or goblin to his ises the hobgoblin something which is (either practically 

service. or morally) difficult for him to procure, and keeps the 
promise.

Cost: 1 Glamour (object) or 2 Glamour (hobgoblin)
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Persuasion + Wyrd vs. Mastermind’s Gambit (Royal)

Composure + Wyrd Having learned from his Keeper, the changeling 
Action: Instant (object) or contested (hobgoblin) knows that strength comes from maneuvering pawns 

Roll Results wherever he wants them.

Success: The character reaches into a small con- Cost: 2 Glamour
tainer, like a handbag or drawer, without looking, and Dice Pool: None
pulls out an item of Size 1. This item can be anything Action: Instant 
the character has seen or handled before. The item is the Duration: One chapter
most basic type of its kind, but fully functional and ready Effects: The changeling speaks aloud to himself, 
to use: A camera takes pictures, a smartphone can make revealing his darkest fears and desires to the air. He 
calls and access a wireless connection, and a gun shoots weaves a concrete goal into his monologue, such as “em-
bullets from its fully loaded magazine. The objects have barrass the Duke of Barrington in front of the Court,” 
no special qualifiers, nor Availability higher than 3. or “break into the Queen’s library,” and his words turn 

Alternatively, the changeling can open any door and into ideas and parchment. This instant action takes 
loudly announce “I have a guest!” to find a hobgoblin stand- at least five minutes to complete. By the time he stops 
ing there. The creature is a normal specimen of its kind speaking, the changeling has created a plan or reposi-
(p. 252) with a Wyrd no higher than 3, and performs one tory (p. 196) pertinent to his goal that counts as equip-
task for the character to the best of its ability. The change- ment granting a +5 bonus. It lasts until the end of the 
ling may elaborate on his door-opening mantra to persuade chapter or until the plan definitively succeeds or fails, 
the creature to come willingly, such as “I have a guest, who whichever comes first.
is skilled as a barrister and whom I shall pay in fingernails!” Elemental: The Unbound can spend a point of Will-
The Storyteller decides if the changeling indeed entices the power to make a repository last for the story, giving him 
hobgoblin in this manner, in which case the Contract roll is more time to use it and expanding its scope to encompass 
uncontested as the creature comes willingly. one Mental Skill Specialty he possesses. The information 

The object or hobgoblin vanishes at the end of the in this repository shapes itself to fit his elemental affinity: 
scene, when it leaves the character’s hands (for an object), a fire that spells letters as he reads along, or books made 
or when the character stops paying attention to it, which- of leaves.
ever comes first. Fairest: The Sovereign can also use this Contract 

Exceptional Success: The item can be of Size 5 or to create an organization, as the Glamour subtly bends 
smaller, and can have up to Availability 5. The hobgoblin the right mortals to his will. This organization is ideally 
likes the character and goes to great lengths to fulfill the geared to counter his enemy’s influence.
spirit of his assignment, rather than the letter, and per- Loophole: The changeling outlines the hierarchy of 
forms any follow-up tasks that ensure greater success. For the organization or the index of the repository, or draws 
example, if it was charged to steal something and discov- up the plan, on paper that is at least 50 years old.
ers the object is cursed, it tells the changeling.

130 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Pipes of the Beastcaller commands whenever he speaks with them. If he mis-
(Royal) treats them, or makes impossible demands, the ani-

mals gain a new Resolve + Composure roll to contest 
Calling on ancient pacts between the Fae and the the Contract.

wild, the changeling plays a silver flute to summon and 
command animals. Failure: The summons fails.

Cost: 1 Glamour Dramatic Failure: The Contract summons one larg-
er hostile animal (like a dog), or a swarm of small ones 

Dice Pool: Manipulation + Animal Ken + Wyrd vs. (like spiders), which attacks the changeling.
Resolve + Composure

Beast: The Grim gains an empathic link to the ani-
Action: Instant (willing) or contested (hostile) mals he commands, allowing him to give them new or addi-

Roll Results tional instructions from a distance. He is also aware of their 
Success: The character sends out a call to all ani- general physical condition and location relative to his own.

mals of one species, which he names when invoking the Fairest: The character can pay an additional point 
Contract, within a radius equal to his Animal Ken dots of Glamour to summon and command a second species 
in miles. Any in range gather around him and he may of animals.
give them simple commands, which they obey to the Loophole: While playing the flute, the changeling 
best of their abilities. The character must give his in- does a little dance that mimics the movements of the ani-
structions verbally (the Contract ensures the creatures, mals he wants to summon.
regardless of intellect, understand him), though the first 
wave of arrivals will pass his instructions on to animals The Royal Court (Royal)
further away. Once the animals have completed their The sanctity and peace of court reign at the change-
task, or face an insurmountable problem, they return to ling’s pleasure.
inform the changeling. Hostile animals may contest this 
Contract. Cost: 3 Glamour + 1 Willpower

Exceptional Success: The character controls the Dice Pool: None
animals for a day and a night, and can give them new Action: Instant

Contracts 131



Effects: Setting himself up as leader during a meet- He himself gains the Inspired Condition pertaining to ac-
ing, the changeling can prevent violence from break- tions that support the event coming to pass.
ing out. No matter how rowdy or hostile negotiations Ogre: The Gargoyle gains three bonus dice to invoke 
get — even if that assassin came here fully intending this Contract when encouraging a negative experience. 
to kill him — none of the people gathered can inflict He himself gains the Steadfast Condition pertaining to 
bodily harm on another. If anyone present is under a su- actions that support the event coming to pass.
pernatural coercion to commit violence, the changeling Loophole: The changeling pricks his target with 
and the force behind the coercion engage in a Clash of a needle or pin, drawing at least one droplet of blood. 
Wills. This Contract does not stop violence if it’s al- Drawing one droplet of blood from a willing target inflicts 
ready started. no damage.

Fairest: The Fairest’s protection extends to Social in-
teractions; targets can’t intimidate or threaten each other, Jewels
but they can still engage in pleasantries to foster goodwill.

Jewels control the fate of the world: They make 
Wizened: The Hatter’s protection extends to mental kingdoms rise and wars break out. They embody physi-

harm, including attacks on Clarity (but not breaking points). cal perfection and the spirit of temptation. They also lie 
Loophole: The changeling stands and makes a — in the end, a diamond is just a crystal. Wizened, who 

speech lasting at least five minutes. are adroit at manipulating the physical and ephemeral, 
favor Jewels.

Spinning Wheel (Royal)
The changeling rivals the Gentry’s thievery of lives, Blessing of Perfection 

and can guide his target’s future to a single point within (Common)
the next month. The changeling is the ultimate artisan, and blesses 

Cost: 3 Glamour + 1 Willpower any object or body with perfection.
Dice Pool: Intelligence + Occult + Wyrd − Resolve Cost: 2 Glamour
Action: Extended; each roll takes 10 minutes. Target Dice Pool: None

number equals the subject’s Wyrd or Resolve, whichever Action: Instant
is higher. Duration: One action

Duration: Until the lunar month ends, or the event Effects: The changeling lovingly caresses and speaks 
comes to pass, whichever comes first. to an object. Her attention bestows a blessing on the ob-
Roll Results ject, which repays her by replacing its equipment bonus 

Success: The changeling names an experience, with her Wyrd rating. The changeling can instead target 
which must be reasonably probable and not overly specif- another person’s Crafts, Medicine, or Computer action by 
ic, for his target. Examples include “meeting the Autumn speaking words of encouragement while he works, replac-
Queen” or “getting hit by a car.” All rolls leading to this ing his Skill rating with her Wyrd.
event, made by the target or other characters, gain bonus Fairest: The Fairest may apply this Contract’s effects to 
dice equal to the successes rolled to invoke the Contract, another’s Expression, Persuasion, or Socialize rolls as well.
while rolls obstructing the event suffer the same as a pen- Wizened: A blessed object retains the bonus to all 
alty, to a maximum of +/−5. This Contract only creates rolls made to use it for the scene.
an event, not the outcome thereof. Loophole: The changeling accepts payment to enact 

A changeling may have a number of instances of this this Contract, then buries the coins or other traded object.
Contract pending equal to his Wyrd rating.

Exceptional Success: The changeling may also spec- Changing Fortunes (Common)
ify an action the target can take to prevent the chosen The changeling has experienced the worst of luck — 
experience from coming to pass, which ends the Contract her abduction — and the best, when she escaped. Living 
immediately. through both extremes, she can manipulate the whims of 

Failure: The Contract fails. fortune.
Dramatic Failure: The changeling curses himself, Cost: 2 Glamour

leading to a dramatic failure on a crucial roll of the Story- Dice Pool: Wits + Occult + Wyrd − Resolve
teller’s choice over the next chapter. Action: Instant

Fairest: The Muse gains three bonus dice to invoke Duration: One action
this Contract when encouraging a positive experience. 

132 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Roll Results Wizened: The Domovoi can invoke this Contract 
Success: The changeling whispers a story to the on an object. People who saw the object previously, and 

wind, of a strange turn of events that befell her in Ar- would expect it to still be there, make up a rational excuse 
cadia. She may then add or subtract two dice from her for why it’s gone. If anyone accidentally moves or knocks 
target’s player’s next roll, or lower or raise his exceptional over the object, the Contract ends.
success threshold by one success, per success rolled. Ex- Loophole: The changeling stands unmoving, in 
ceptional success thresholds can’t drop below one success, darkness or deep shadows, for one minute.
nor can the target ever achieve exceptional success on a 
chance die. The changeling can target herself. Murkblur (Common)

Example: With two rolled successes, a player can add The changeling calls upon the myriad distractions of 
or subtract four dice from her target’s dice pool, or lower Arcadia to overwhelm another’s vision.
or raise his exceptional success threshold by two success- Cost: 1 Glamour
es, or add or subtract two dice while also lowering or rais- Dice Pool: Manipulation + Subterfuge + Wyrd vs. 
ing his exceptional threshold by one. Wits + Wyrd

Changing Fortunes can affect a given target only Action: Contested
once per chapter. Attempting to use this Contract on the 
same target again results in the changeling cursing her- Duration: One turn
self, as dramatic failure. Roll Results

Exceptional Success: Rather than affect the target’s Success: The target sees the impossible beauty of Ar-
next roll, the changeling may specify a trigger for the effect, cadia, not meant for lesser beings to behold, and suffers 
such as “if he tries to shoot me.” If the trigger doesn’t hap- the Blinded Tilt (both eyes).
pen before the end of the scene, the Contract simply ends. Exceptional Success: As success, and the target suf-

Failure: The Contract fails. fers the Deafened Tilt (both ears).
Dramatic Failure: The Contract turns against the Failure: The Contract fails.

changeling per success, with effects chosen by the Storyteller. Dramatic Failure: Light and color assail the change-
Ogre: The target suffers the Shaken Condition when- ling’s senses. She gains the Disoriented Condition.

ever he uses the cursed dice pool, until the sun next cross- Elemental: The Unbound may instead make the tar-
es the horizon. The initial effect still only applies once. get believe he’s enveloped by an element of the change-

Wizened: After seeing the target’s roll impacted by ling’s choice. He may drop and roll, believing he’s on fire, 
this Contract, the player may direct his player or the Sto- or think he’s drowning in water. The Storyteller chooses 
ryteller to reroll. The second roll stands. any Tilts that seem appropriate for the target to suffer.

Loophole: The changeling dramatically failed on Wizened: The Wizened cuts her target’s senses off 
one of her own actions this scene. She can also invoke so completely he also suffers the Disoriented Condition.
this Contract and dramatically fail a later action within Loophole: The changeling eats a creature’s eye while 
the same scene to regain the Glamour she spent on it. invoking the Contract. She needn’t pluck it out herself — 

Light-Shy (Common) changelings can buy an eye at a Goblin Market, or on the 
internet.

The changeling becomes as elusive as a dream, and 
shadows cloak her in the obscurity of forgotten memories. Trivial Reworking (Common)

Cost: 1 Glamour Trickery is the birthright of every Lost, allowing her 
Dice Pool: None to shape an object’s appearance to her desire.
Action: Instant Cost: 1 Glamour

Roll Results Dice Pool: None

Effects: The changeling becomes invisible to the mind, Action: Instant
affecting all senses, though recording technology still detects Effects: The changeling recalls how her Keeper mold-
her. The Contract ends if she takes any aggressive action, ed items to fit his whims, and mimics some of what he did. 
such as an attack or shouting at someone, or inflicts any kind She cloaks a mundane item up to Size 3 in her Mask, and 
of harm or supernatural effect on anyone. changes its visual aspects. The object’s basic shape remains 

Darkling: The Bewitched temporarily erases herself the same, and all rules governing Mask apply. This effect 
from existence, and even recording technology no longer is purely psychological: A dry leaf disguised as a $100 bill 
detects her. looks and feels exactly like a $100 bill to any mortal, but 

Contracts 133



doesn’t stand up to counterfeit detection measures. Beings Roll Results
able to see through the Mask are immune to this power. Success: The changeling makes a mechanical device 

Darkling: Any attempts to detect the forgery sub- dance to her whims. She strikes it to inspire obedience 
tract dice equal to the Mountebank’s Manipulation. through terror, or caresses it to engender loyalty born 

Wizened: The Wizened can affect an object of any Size. from love. Either way, the device comes alive to follow 
Loophole: The character touched another object simi- a single, simple command. A door closes and remains 

lar to the illusory one she creates within the same scene. closed, a car drives away, or a gun shoots until it runs out 
of bullets. Anyone attempting to change its action must 

Changeling Hours (Royal) roll Strength + Resolve and achieve more successes than 
the changeling did to invoke the Contract.

Time means nothing in Faerie, where years pass in 
less than a single night. The changeling calls on this tem- Devices cannot move outside their normal range of 
poral fluidity to slow, speed, or freeze an object in time. motion. If a device’s natural movement would inflict dam-

age, like a car running someone over, it uses the successes 
Cost: 1 Glamour, +1 per 5 Size rolled on this Contract as a dice pool for that attack.
Dice Pool: None The changeling can control any device she can see 
Action: Instant within (10 x Wyrd) yards/meters. 
Duration: One chapter Exceptional Success: The player can purchase the 
Effects: The changeling moves her arms to “draw” a device as a one-dot Retainer, in which case it remains 

clock in the air between herself and the object. She then permanently animated. If she does not, the enchantment 
mimics turning the hands of the clock backward, forward, expires after one chapter.
or halting them. Failure: The Contract fails.

This Contract can create three different effects. The Dramatic Failure: The device comes to life but turns 
changeling chooses which to use when she invokes the against the changeling, capable of actively opposing her.
Contract. Beast: The Beast imbues the device with animal-like 

Rewind the clock: The item becomes as new. The intelligence, allowing her to give it multiple or more com-
Contract repairs one point of damage per turn and re- plex commands to follow. For instance, she could make 
places missing parts, restoring up to her Crafts rating in it shoot anyone wearing a red jacket, as opposed to just 
Structure. shooting blindly.

Speed the clock: The item corrodes, suffering one Wizened: The Shrewd can compel the device to 
point of damage per turn that ignores Durability, up to move outside its normal range of operation. Rather than 
her Crafts rating in damage. remain lying where it is, the gun can move in the air to 

Freeze the clock: The item freezes in time and place, target opponents. The changeling decides where and how 
rendering it impossible to move and immune to damage the object moves each turn, at a Speed equal to her Wyrd, 
or change. but the Contract ends if the object moves out of range.

Elemental: The Elemental may also affect instances Loophole: The changeling inscribes a name on the 
of her associated element with this Contract — for in- object, then calls it to life: “Jack the gun, shoot!” She 
stance, to create an ever-burning flame or restore a with- must give a new name to each object called to life with 
ered flower to full bloom. this Contract.

Wizened: The changeling may make the freezing ef-
fect permanent by also spending a point of Willpower. Su- Hidden Reality (Royal)
pernatural powers that override this permanency prompt The changeling is the master of the unseen, shaping 
a Clash of Wills. the hidden elements of her surroundings.

Loophole: The changeling names a former (not cur- Cost: 1 Glamour
rent) owner of the object. Dice Pool: None

Dance of the Toys (Royal) Action: Instant
Effects: The character imagines the world not as it is, 

At the changeling’s touch, cars drive themselves, but how it might be, and chooses one of the differences to 
doors and cabinets open and close, and a gun fires itself. become reality. She may alter a feature of her surround-

Cost: 2 Glamour ings, as long as it could have always been this way. For ex-
Dice Roll: Manipulation + Crafts + Wyrd ample, she can create a hidden latch on a box, or a door on 
Action: Instant a wall, as long as no one else has seen that it wasn’t there 

134 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



yet during this scene. The change must be minor in scope supernatural traits (such as Clarity, Wyrd, or Contracts). 
and part of an existing object, which must be lifeless — she The stolen reflection is friendly and deferential to the 
can’t grow a new branch on a tree — though it may be of Fairest. On a dramatic failure, the original person doesn’t 
any Size. Changes vanish at the end of the scene, or when sustain any damage, but the reflection the changeling 
no one pays attention to them, whichever comes first. tried to steal is a Hedge-dwelling mirror person who gains 

Fairest: The Sovereign instead targets one person in an Aspiration to punish the changeling in the future.
her vicinity, changing either his Virtue or Vice (or equiv- Wizened: If the Wizened spends an additional Glam-
alent anchor). This requires a Manipulation + Subterfuge our point, the stolen reflection retains any mystical prop-
+ Wyrd roll, contested by the target’s Resolve + Wyrd. erties of the original, such as a goblin fruit.

Wizened: A Hatter may pay an additional point of Loophole: The changeling coaxed the owner of 
Glamour to create whole new objects that could reason- the original to express a sense of debt to her, within the 
ably be found in the area, like a set of keys on a nearby scene. This can be sincere, such as “I did not forget our 
table, or a car parked in the garage. deal, and will pay you soon,” or lighthearted, such as 

Loophole: The changeling makes a show of looking “Coffee! I owe you one!”
for the feature — turning a box over in her hands and 
pressing random parts of it, before she “finds” the secret Tatterdemalion’s Workshop 
compartment — and expresses surprise when she finds it. (Royal)
This makes the invocation take one full minute. The Gentry raise mountains from clouds, and weave 

forests from hairs. The changeling likewise can create an 
Stealing the Solid  object with the unlikeliest of materials, using forgotten 
Reflection (Royal) scraps and chicanery to build dreams.

Harking back to the power by which the Gentry cre- Cost: 2 Glamour
ate fetches, the changeling steals a reflection and turns it Dice Pool: None
into a solid object. Mirror people who live in the Hedge Action: Instant
don’t take kindly to the Lost stealing their things this way.

Duration: Instant
Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower

Effects: The changeling takes a jury rigging Build 
Dice Pool: Strength + Larceny + Wyrd Equipment action (p. 197) as normal, but no mundane 
Action: Instant equipment up to Size 5 is ever too complex to build in a 

Roll Results single turn, and she bypasses the need for proper com-
ponents or tools. Reduce the usual penalty for equip-

Success: The changeling reaches into a reflective ment bonuses or benefits by half the character’s Wyrd, 
surface, to the mirror world beyond, and pulls the desired rounded up. The crafting process should look vaguely 
object out of it. The surface must be clear enough to show possible to the layman: She can create a rocket launcher 
some detail, and the object must fit through it. The stolen out of a flare gun and a canister of compressed gas, or a 
reflection is mirrored: a car with the steering wheel on portable Xerox machine from random bathroom supplies 
the wrong side, or a book written in backwards text. The and a fountain pen. The device functions as well as its 
stolen object has no supernatural properties. Neither the normal version would.
stolen object nor the original has a reflection while this 
Contract lasts. Ogre: The Ogre doesn’t require parts that would 

plausibly fit to make the item, as she pulls and stretches 
Exceptional Success: The stolen reflection remains objects into shape — instead of using duct tape, she forces 

solid until the sun next passes the horizon. a Band-Aid around an exhaust pipe.
Failure: The Contract fails. Wizened: The Domovoi can jury rig a complex ob-
Dramatic Failure: The reflective surface shatters, and ject of any Size.

the original object sustains damage equal to the changeling’s Loophole: The changeling is wearing large, old glass-
Wyrd that bypasses Durability, as cracks erupt across it. es and uses archaic tools.

Fairest: The Unicorn retrieves the reflection of a 
living being. The stolen reflection carries a mark of the Mirror
supernatural, like having six fingers or heterochromatic 
eyes. The reflection’s mundane traits are equal to the orig- Mirror catches the world in its reflection, enhancing 
inal’s, or the changeling’s Wyrd, whichever is lower. For senses and laying secrets bare. Changelings may even look 
example, if the original has Strength 3 and the change- into the mirror and see themselves, warts and all, to guide 
ling Wyrd 2, the reflection’s Strength becomes 2. It has no them to transformation. Darklings, who thrive on secrets 

and knowledge, favor this Regalia.

Contracts 135



Glimpse of a Distant Mirror Loophole: The changeling looks into a mirror belonging 
(Common) to someone who has sworn enmity against him. He may steal 

this mirror and take it with him (or may have already done 
The space between mirrors is empty and glittering so in the past), as long as he does not claim ownership over it.

like the fae, connecting them all through mazy corridors 
of the Hedge. Know the Competition  

Cost: 1 Glamour (Common)
Dice Pool: None After living at the whim of the mercurial Fae, the 
Action: Instant changeling knows what it is to turn mere diversions into 
Effects: The changeling looks into any reflective surface, opportunities. He challenges his opponent to a game, and 

which becomes a window that looks out through another gleans the workings of her mind. This Contract’s invoca-
such surface that has reflected his face before. Anyone who tion roll represents the game’s outcome. The Contract’s in-
looks into this window can see what’s on the other side. The stant action takes at least 10 minutes to complete.
view is only as clear as the surfaces allow — a muddy pool Cost: 1 Glamour 
creates a muddy view. After the Contract ends, the change- Dice Pool: Manipulation + Socialize + Wyrd vs. 
ling sees himself wrong in the surface for the rest of the scene, Composure + Wyrd
glimpsing hints of the mirror people on the other side.

Action: Contested 
Beast: The Savage may also see out of any surface 

currently reflecting a person who has sworn a promise or Duration: Instant
pledge to him or invokes his name, even if the surface Roll Results
hasn’t previously reflected him. Success: The changeling observes his opponent in a 

Darkling: The Darkling can also hear sounds trans- game against him, predicting her moves and how she uses 
mitted through the window. If he desires, people on the her resources. He wins, and learns her Virtue and Vice (or 
other side may see and hear him, too. equivalent anchors) and one of her Aspirations.

136 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Exceptional Success: The changeling also learns a Exceptional Success: The changeling may evoke 
second Aspiration. emotions associated with the event in his target: for ex-

Failure: The Contract fails. ample, if the event was a night of passion, he reminds 
Dramatic Failure: The changeling misreads his op- the target of his lover. The target gains a Condition to 

ponent, who not only wins the game but also learns his represent this.
Needle, Thread, and one Aspiration. Failure: The Contract fails.

Beast: Once, before the next dawn, the Beast can Dramatic Failure: The changeling sees a false event 
think of the target as an instant action and know exactly and with it, signs of the Gentry’s impending approach. He 
where she is and what she’s doing. He also knows when suffers the Paranoid Condition.
she plans to leave her current location, though events Darkling: The Bewitched may choose to see a past 
might still cause her to leave later or more quickly — the crime or transgression instead, and inflict the Guilty Con-
Contract only reveals what the target intends at that point. dition on his target regarding that event.

Darkling: The Darkling can invoke this Contract to Elemental: The Torrent may choose to see the next 
observe multiple opponents at once, up to his Wyrd rat- violent event to come instead, and grant his target some 
ing, in a game with more than two players. of his hardiness for it. If the event comes to pass, the tar-

Loophole: The changeling goaded his target into get gains the effects of the Giant Merit for one scene.
challenging him to a game. Loophole: The changeling tears up a picture of the 

target.
Portents and Visions  
(Common) Read Lucidity (Common)

The character calls upon the timelessness of Arcadia The changeling reads another person’s mental stabil-
and recites a random list of events, objects, names, and ity at a single glance.
places. As he goes through them, tongue twisting and Cost: 1 Glamour
turning around the words faster than anyone’s should, he Dice Pool: Manipulation + Empathy + Wyrd vs. 
stumbles upon a word that ties in to either his target’s past Composure + Wyrd
or present. His eyes go white, and he has now seen what 
once was, or what might be. Action: Contested

This Contract’s instant action takes at least one min- Duration: Instant
ute to complete. The player states whether his character Roll Results
wants to see the past or future. The changeling must see Success: The Storyteller tells the player the target’s 
his target, though she needn’t see him, and can invoke maximum and current Clarity levels, though the char-
this Contract on himself by looking into a mirror. acter interprets this in relative terms (“she’s more stable 

Cost: 1 Glamour than I am” or “she’s very confused”). The changeling also 
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Occult + Wyrd vs. knows which Clarity Conditions his target suffers, if any.

Composure + Wyrd Exceptional Success: The changeling also uncovers 
Action: Contested the circumstances of the target’s most recently suffered 
Duration: Instant Clarity damage.

Failure: The Contract fails.
Roll Results

Dramatic Failure: The character gleans the wrong 
Success: Clarity levels, but doesn’t know this.
Past: The changeling sees a vision of the most impor- Beast: With an exceptional success, the Beast’s play-

tant event, relevant to the changeling’s current interests, er may roll his successes as dice in a psychic Clarity attack 
that has befallen the target. This is not contingent on the against the target.
target’s memories: He might see a forgotten or suppressed 
event. Alternatively, the changeling may view the last Darkling: With an exceptional success, the Darkling 
promise or deal the target made. may lend some of his slippery nature to the target: She 

gains Defense equal to her Wits against the next Clarity 
Future: The changeling sees the most important event, attack she suffers. This effect lasts until used, or the end 

promise, or deal coming up for the target in the next few of the session, whichever comes first.
days. The future is not set in stone, and the changeling’s 
involvement can alter it. The changeling, and the target if Loophole: The changeling touches the target, skin-
he tells her, gains the Informed Condition. to-skin.

Contracts 137



Walls Have Ears (Common) The player chooses an additional benefit per success 
The changeling engages an object in conversation to rolled to invoke this Contract, such as: 

learn its secrets, previous owners, and weaknesses. •	 +1 Durability; can apply multiple times
Cost: 1-3 Glamour

•	 Limited mobility (he rolls himself as a rock, or uses 
Dice Pool: None chair legs to walk)
Action: Instant
Effects: The changeling holds an item up to his •	 +/−1 Size; can apply multiple times

mouth, and tells it a secret from his time in Arcadia. The •	 Other effects with Storyteller approval
object tells him a secret in return.

The changeling can invoke any of these effects, at a Exceptional Success: The changeling may purchase 
cost of one point of Glamour each: the form permanently for 3 Experiences. If he does, he can 

adopt it reflexively for a single point of Glamour (but still 
•	 He knows how the object is constructed and all its must roll), but can’t benefit from this Contract’s Loophole 

weak points. Halve the object’s Durability (round- that way. He changes as if he achieved one success. He may 
ed down) for any attack he makes against it, and also still assume the same form using this Contract normally.
add his Intelligence rating as bonus dice to repair Failure: The Contract fails.
or modify the object.

Dramatic Failure: The changeling briefly becomes 
•	 He knows how to use the object to its best effect, a misshapen mass and suffers a Clarity attack with dice 

and his player gains the 9-again quality on dice equal to half his Wyrd rating (rounded up).
rolls to wield or use it. Darkling: The Darkling may extend the Contract’s 

duration to last until the sun next crosses the horizon.
•	 He sees a vision of the person who last handled or 

touched the object, as well as the circumstances of Ogre: The Gargoyle may assume the form of objects 
the scene. The vision shows anyone within three up to double his Size by default. 
meters of the object at that time. Loophole: The changeling is within plain sight of 

multiple others, but no one is looking at him at the mo-
Darkling: The Wisp also gains the Informed Condition ment he invokes the Contract. 

about the object’s owner. If it currently belongs to him, he in-
stead gains the Informed Condition about one previous own- Reflections of the Past 
er he can describe; “Matt,” “the dark-skinned Ogre with the (Royal)
eye patch,” or “the guy it just showed me” are all valid targets.

Time means nothing in Arcadia, letting the change-
Wizened: The Wizened’s player may spend one point of ling look beyond a reflective surface and into the past.

Glamour per additional point in time he wishes to view. He 
must either specify a point in time by who was present and Cost: 1 Glamour per time frame (week, month, sea-
the general circumstances, or simply view the last person to son, year, or decade)
handle the object before the most recent one he’s already seen. Dice Pool: Intelligence + Occult + Wyrd

Loophole: The changeling is in public, among mor- Action: Instant
tals who can hear him speak his secret aloud. Roll Results
Props and Scenery (Royal) Success: The changeling looks into a reflective surface, 

The changeling wills his body to become like the and states a specific time or event. The reflection then re-
paintings on the wall, or the cups in an enchanted cup- winds at impossible speed, compressing days or years into 
board, mimicking an object’s shape in his stance. He calls a single moment until it comes to the time he states. The 
on the boon Arcadia owes him for his imprisonment to changeling may then see the event as it happened, though 
transform him into the shape he desires. only from the angle at which it was originally reflected in the 

surface. Anyone else watching sees the same vision. The vi-
Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower sion can show up to one scene’s worth of events.
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Persuasion + Wyrd The changeling can see moments further back in the 
Action: Instant past by spending more Glamour; one to go back up to a 

Roll Results week, two for a month, three for a season, four for a year, and 
five for a decade. He must specify the time by at least date 

Success: Glamour shapes the changeling into the de- (either fixed or relative to the present), and whether it was 
sired inanimate object, with standard traits for its kind, of day or night; or he can specify an event as long as he knows 
a Size up to his own by default. some of the details, such as “when the Ogre beat up Jack.”

138 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Exceptional Success: The changeling can look Elemental: The Elemental’s fluid nature allows him 
around the edges into the reflection, seeing more details. to make his target appear to be a different seeming as 
For example, if he looks into a shop window that reflects well, if he chooses.
his friend Jack fighting off an Ogre, he can stick his head Loophole: The changeling has gifted something to 
into the vision to peer around the edges of the reflection, a changeling of the kith he wishes to emulate within this 
to see the Darkling standing a little further away. scene. He must not have gotten anything in return, be-

Failure: The Contract fails. yond gratitude. For example, if he treated her to lunch, 
Dramatic Failure: The changeling sees a false event constituting the gift of food, even the promise that she 

and with it, signs of the Gentry’s impending approach. He will “get the next one” negates the Loophole.
suffers the Paranoid Condition. Skinmask (Royal)

Darkling: The Mountebank may use his kenning to 
detect supernatural phenomena within the reflected events. The changeling sees what he might have become if 

he’d stayed human, and calls on the shards of this broken 
Fairest: The Fairest may inflict the Leveraged Condi- promise to change his Mask.

tion upon one of the characters in the vision.
Cost: 2 Glamour

Loophole: The changeling lets some of his blood fall on 
the surface after taking at least 1L damage in this scene. The Dice Pool: None
surface absorbs the blood, then shows the vision as above. Action: Instant

Riddle-Kith (Royal) Effects: The changeling recites three things he 
knows about his target, who may be a mortal or any crea-

Seeing the myriad things he could have been in Ar- ture with a Mask: She’s tall, takes sugar in her coffee, and 
cadia, the changeling molds any mien into the image of wears a red coat. He then assumes her outward appear-
another kith. He touches his own or another Lost’s face ance. If his target is a changeling, he copies both Mask 
and sculpts it like clay. and mien. Mimicking the target’s behavior still requires 

Cost: 1 Glamour successful Social rolls.
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Larceny + Wyrd vs. While the changeling could copy the Mask of any-

Composure + Wyrd one he’s physically met, he often copies people who look 
Action: Instant or contested; see below like him — or rather, people he’d look like if not for being 

taken. Older, without the curse of youth imposed by his 
Roll Results Keeper, with fewer scars and eyes that know peace. Pre-

Success: Leaving the Mask and pulling only on the tending he’s like them eases the itching under his skin; if 
Glamour under the target’s skin, the changeling alters he does this, regain a Willpower point.
the target’s outward fae mien to emulate the trappings of Darkling: The Bewitched has so perfectly mastered 
a different kith, but not its blessings. The target’s general one visage that his player can purchase it as the Alter-
features remain: if he was a rotund Chatelaine, he is now nate Identity Merit at any rating he likes. If he does, 
a rotund Snowskin. Nothing about the target’s apparent the changeling can shift to it reflexively for the scene 
seeming changes, so a Darkling Leechfinger now looks by spending a point of Glamour. He may only have 
like a Darkling Helldiver, for instance. Forcing a new one such Alternate Identity at a time; if he chooses to 
kith’s appearance upon an unwilling subject grants her change it, simply shift the Merit dots to the new appear-
a roll to contest it and constitutes a breaking point with ance. The player may only purchase an identity this way 
a pool of three dice, as the changeling repeats the cru- if the character has emulated that person at least three 
elty of the Gentry. This Contract cannot copy a specific times in the past.
changeling’s mien. Fairest: The Fairest instinctively knows whether an 

Exceptional Success: The changeling can spend a action he plans to take is in line with the personality of 
point of Willpower to extend the Contract’s duration in- the target he’s copied; gain three bonus dice to attempts 
definitely, but only when he himself is the target. to mimic the target’s behavior.

Failure: The Contract fails. Loophole: The changeling holds an object belong-
Dramatic Failure: The target fully sheds her own ing to the character he wants to mimic when he invokes 

kith, but fails to assume another. She loses all kith ben- this Contract. 
efits for the scene. Unravel the Tapestry (Royal)

Darkling: The Darkling’s target can truly become the 
kith she impersonates — she loses the mechanical benefits of The changeling unravels time and fate, altering the 
her own kith, and receives those of the false kith. immediate past to fit his own whims.

Contracts 139



Cost: 2 Glamour + 1 Willpower Effects: The changeling must invoke this Contract 
Dice Pool: Wits + Occult + Wyrd while she and her allies are in dim or dark conditions; as 
Action: Reflexive long as they take a penalty to visual perception rolls, it’s 

dark enough. She drapes the darkness around a number 
Duration: Instant of willing companions equal to her Dexterity rating. The 

Roll Results player’s Stealth rolls, to which she adds half her character’s 
Success: Replay the last 10 seconds, or go back to Wyrd (rounded up) in bonus dice, hide the entire group as 

the top of the Initiative roster one full turn ago in action long as no one does anything to attract undue attention, 
timing. The changeling may change his actions. All other such as attacking or making loud noises. The changeling 
characters, except those who used a similar power, retake and her companions also take Stealth-based actions as re-
their original actions. For example, the character was hit flexive actions, once per turn in action timing.
with an axe and took damage, prompting him to invoke Darkling: The Darkling and her companions retain 
this Contract. This time, he successfully Dodges. His at- the benefits of this Contract even if they attract attention 
tacker still swings the axe (and misses), as she did not ex- to themselves.
pect him to step back. Ogre: The Ogre approaches stealth by going slowly 

This Contract activates automatically if the character — rather than flit from shadow to shadow, she simply 
dies and can pay its cost. If he lives this time, he gains holds perfectly still and silent until the risk of discovery 
the Spooked Condition as he remembers being dead. If he has passed. She may substitute Stamina for Dexterity to 
dies again, he’s out of luck — the Contract can only self- determine how many companions she can shield. 
activate once per story. Loophole: The changeling and her companions don 

Exceptional Success: The changeling’s player gains black articles of clothing that mark them as sneaks and rogues, 
the 8-again quality on any rolls he makes during the re- such as masks or cloaks.
played time. Fae Cunning (Common)

Failure: The Contract fails.
The changeling is untouchable, as weapons swerve 

Dramatic Failure: Reality and false visions bleed away from her.
into each other, and the changeling gains the Insensate 
Tilt. If he acts again this scene in action timing, he auto- Cost: 2 Glamour
matically has the lowest Initiative. Dice Pool: None

Darkling: The Wisp may take a reflexive action to Action: Reflexive
move up to his Stealth rating in yards/meters, immediately Effects: The changeling moves with the grace of light-
after enacting this Contract but before the time begins anew. ning or commands blades to pass her by, or perhaps her 

Wizened: Acting with impossible precision and shadowy body simply splits in two to remain unharmed. 
speed, the Wizened gains one surprise attack against any She may apply her Defense to Firearms attacks and never 
viable target, if he wishes. loses her Defense even if she’s surprised or distracted. Su-

Loophole: The changeling incurred a debt during pernatural powers that would deny her Defense prompt a 
this scene, which he has not repaid yet. This can be as Clash of Wills. If she successfully Dodges, she may redirect 
trivial as promising his barista a tip next time, as he has the attack to another valid target, which automatically hits 
no pocket change right now. with successes equal to the changeling’s Presence rating.

Elemental: The Elemental is inhumanly persistent, 
Shield also adding her Resolve rating to her Initiative and Speed.

Bearers of Shield swear to defend and protect. They Ogre: The Ogre’s skin becomes hard like stone or tough 
hold their ground, providing refuge to the downtrodden, like hide; any mundane weapon that strikes her suffers her 
and use their strength to heal other Lost. Ogres, growing Stamina rating as points of damage, subject to Durability.
stronger with each burden they carry, favor Shield. Loophole: The character challenges an opponent to 

an immediate duel.
Cloak of Night (Common)

The changeling commands the night and shadows to Shared Burden (Common)
shield herself and her companions, for she has seen true Calling upon stories of parents dying to protect their 
darkness and is its master. children, or lovers exchanging places in the Underworld, 

Cost: 1 Glamour the changeling makes another’s pain her own. She curses 
Dice Pool: None her Keeper for setting her against her own kind and vows 

to repay that debt now.
Action: Instant

140 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Cost: 2 Glamour Cost: 2 Glamour
Dice Pool: None Dice Pool: None
Action: Instant Action: Instant
Duration: Instant Effects: Brambles grow around the changeling with 
Effects: The changeling lets her blood flow onto her a radius of yards/meters equal to her Wyrd rating, and 

target’s body, as her Glamour knits his wounds closed. For follow her as she moves. They can produce three different 
every point of lethal damage she inflicts upon herself, the effects, listed below. The changeling chooses one when 
Contract heals two points of damage for her target. She she invokes this Contract. If she uses it in the Hedge, the 
heals bashing damage first, followed by lethal; this Con- brambles don’t follow her movements, and she must con-
tract can’t heal aggravated damage. tend with their threat as well.

No magic can alleviate damage a changeling in- Leechweed: The brambles prick anyone who moves 
flicted upon herself by using Shared Burden — not even through them more quickly than Speed 2, draining him 
someone else’s. of one point of Glamour per turn, up to the changeling’s 

Ogre: The Gargoyle heals three points of damage per Wyrd rating per victim.
point of lethal damage inflicted. Briarpatch: The brambles entangle the changeling’s 

Wizened: Skilled in the art of healing, a Hatter heals enemies, inflicting the Immobilized Tilt (p. 330) on any-
lethal damage first, then bashing. one who fails a reflexive Dexterity + Athletics roll; they 

must make one each time they move within the area. 
Loophole: The changeling holds a strip of skin, four The brambles have a Durability equal to the changeling’s 

inches or longer, of the creature that inflicted the injury. Wyrd rating.

Thorns and Brambles  Field of Thorns: The brambles attack anyone who tries 
(Common) to break through using the changeling’s Wyrd rating as a 

dice pool. They are piercing weapons with a modifier of 
The Hedge rent the changeling’s flesh when she es- +0L. The brambles attack any given character only once 

caped, feasting on her suffering. Now, she calls on that per turn. The changeling may make the Field of Thorns 
hunger, offering her enemies as sacrifice instead. She can stay in place when she moves.
use this Contract within the Hedge itself, if she dares. 

Contracts 141



Darkling: The Wisp gains the Glamour drained by Roll Results
Leechweed. Success: The changeling’s presence heals two points 

Ogre: Characters moving through the Briarpatch of the target’s mild Clarity damage, or one point of severe. 
take a penalty to their Athletics rolls equal to the Ogre’s This has no effect on the target’s Clarity Conditions.
Strength. Exceptional Success: The changeling also acts as a 

Loophole: The changeling litters a handful of Hedge temporary Touchstone for the target, until after the next 
thorns behind her. Clarity attack he suffers. 

Trapdoor Spider’s Trick Failure: The Contract fails.

(Common) Dramatic Failure: The changeling suffers a Clarity 
attack with a pool of two dice, as she only manages to 

The changeling speaks aloud of a night when she make things worse.
slept in dangerous territory, hoping her pursuers would 
not discover her. Or, if she was the hunter, she recalls how Fairest: The target gains Defense equal to the Muse’s 
the clever prey found a place to rest, right under her nose. Presence rating against the next Clarity attack he suffers 
She hides a door behind shards of dreams and illusions. during the current story.

Cost: 1 Glamour, or 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower Ogre: One of the Terrible may cause the opposite ef-
fect instead, making a Clarity attack against her target with 

Dice Pool: None a dice pool equal to her Empathy. This use of the Contract 
Action: Instant prevents the character from ever using it to heal that target 
Duration: One scene, or until the sun next crosses in the future, and may constitute a breaking point for her 

the horizon; see below. at the player and Storyteller’s discretion.
Effects: The changeling steps through an opening Loophole: The changeling professes friendship to the 

(be it a door, a window, or a hole in the wall) and cloaks target in front of multiple witnesses while invoking this Con-
it with Glamour to make it seem impassable, or not even tract. She needn’t swear an oath, or even mean it, though 
there at all. The illusion is visual only, and supernatural she still carries the risk that the Wyrd takes her at her word.
perception can pierce it visually with a successful Clash 
of Wills. The player may pay an additional point of Will- Hedgewall (Royal)
power when enacting this Contract to extend the effect The changeling summons a massive castle of thorns 
until the next dawn or dusk, whichever comes first. and brambles for protection.

Ogre: The Ogre marks the illusion with a symbol Cost: 2 Glamour + 1 Willpower
that lets her allies see through it automatically. Dice Pool: Intelligence + Survival + Wyrd

Wizened: The Domovoi’s illusion encompasses all Action: Extended (Five successes necessary; each 
senses; supernatural perception is required to pierce it at roll represents one turn)
all, prompting a Clash of Wills.

Roll Results
Loophole: The changeling lures an enemy or rival 

through the portal first. Success: Hedgewalls form a castle around the change-
ling, sprawling out to a diameter of 10 yards/meters per dot 

Fortifying Presence (Royal) of Wyrd he possesses; space constraints and the change-
The changeling spends meaningful time with her ling’s wishes can make it smaller in the real world, but in the 

target. She might offer food, drink, or a shoulder to cry Hedge it simply plows over obstacles out to its full size. The 
on. If he wants to talk, she’ll listen. If he’s in a fighting castle grants substantial concealment against ranged attacks 
mood, she’s up for a spar or even a duel. Whatever gives from outside (p. 186). The walls prevent anyone from passing 
him perspective will do. This Contract’s instant action without first clearing them away, and each wall has Durabil-
takes a full scene of interaction to invoke. The target ity 3 and Size 8. Characters can scale the walls, but doing 
cannot waive the contested roll — even if he trusts the so with no protection from the brambles inflicts one point 
changeling, the little voice in the back of his head always of lethal damage per turn. The changeling determines the 
counsels caution. layout of the construct, but its passages must be wide enough 

for a Size 4 character to pass through easily.
Cost: 2 Glamour

Exceptional Success: The changeling chooses one 
Dice Pool: Presence + Empathy + Wyrd vs. Resolve effect from Thorns and Brambles (p. 141) to add to the 

+ Wyrd castle for free.
Action: Contested Failure: The Contract fails. Used in the Hedge, fail-
Duration: Instant ure acts as dramatic failure.

142 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Dramatic Failure: The castle inflicts the changeling Vow of No Compromise 
and her allies with the Lost Condition as it grows into a (Royal)
maze around them. Dramatic failure in the Hedge also 
alerts a hostile hobgoblin, who feels they’ve encroached on Having once sworn never to compromise herself for 
its territory. the Fae’s twisted aims, the changeling now swears again 

never to compromise in her duty to her fellows.
Beast: The Beast’s Hedgewall is primal and intoxi-

cating, and enemies suffer a −2 modifier on Resolve rolls Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower
while inside. Dice Pool: None

Ogre: Hedgewall lasts until the sun next passes the Action: Instant
horizon. Duration: Instant

Loophole: The changeling plants a seed or sapling Effects: With a touch and a spoken promise, the 
from the Hedge immediately before using this Contract. changeling downgrades one level of her target’s aggra-

vated damage to lethal. In exchange, she gains the Stoic 
Pure Clarity (Royal) Condition (p. 345). She may target herself.

The changeling recounts the most horrific thing Ogre: The Gargoyle also gains the Inspired Condi-
her Keeper ever did to her, that she remembers. Her tion with regard to punishing or spiting whoever was re-
voice becomes like steel in the telling, and that suffer- sponsible for the damage she mitigated.
ing can no longer touch her. In fact, nothing can touch Elemental: The Sprite needn’t touch her target as 
her, for now. long as he’s surrounded by or submerged in her associated 

Cost: 2 Glamour + 1 Willpower element.
Dice Pool: Resolve + Composure + Wyrd Loophole: The changeling destroys a representation 
Action: Instant of the True Fae — a drawing or photo, a shred of fae rai-

ment, etc. Killing one of their servants also suffices.
Roll Results

Success: The changeling can take any one action Whispers of Morning (Royal)
during this scene that would normally prompt a break- The changeling cloaks herself in the shards of dreams, 
ing point for her, without suffering one. The Contract which flee from memory come morning. 
ends once she does, or at the end of the scene, whichever Cost: 2 Glamour
comes first. She may only use it once per scene.

Dice Pool: None
The changeling can invoke this Contract retroac-

tively for actions on her part (for example, if she acci- Action: Instant
dentally kills someone) as long as she does so within the Effects: The world, and indeed the laws of physics, 
same scene. forget about the changeling — stuck between being and 

Exceptional Success: The changeling gains an ar- not being, her body and everything on her person become 
mor rating of 2 against the next Clarity attack she suffers. intangible. She is weightless, can’t be touched or attacked 
This boon remains until triggered, even if the Contract (or touch or attack others) save by magical means, and 
ends first. can pass through all physical barriers at will.. She can see 

and interact with other incorporeal fae creatures and ob-
Failure: The Contract fails. jects, such as other changelings using Whispers of Morn-
Dramatic Failure: The changeling gains a Clarity ing and Hedge ghosts. However, she exists on a different 

Condition of the Storyteller’s choosing, which doesn’t frequency than creatures in Twilight, such as spirits and 
heal Clarity damage when it resolves. regular ghosts. Helldivers using their Dive blessing exist 

Fairest: The Fairest rises above her circumstances, on a tangency between the two: The Helldiver chooses 
and can invoke this Contract to shield herself from situa- whether the changeling can see him or not.
tions inflicted upon her as well. Ogre: The Bruiser can carry one person on her back 

Ogre: The Ogre may invoke this Contract to protect and extend this Contract’s effects to him. Her player must 
one of her companions instead. roll Presence + Occult + Wyrd, contested by the target’s 

Loophole: The changeling dons a metal gauntlet on Stamina + Wyrd, if the target is unwilling.
one hand, and a silk glove on the other, when invoking this Wizened: The Shrewd can pick up Size 1 objects, 
Contract. The gauntlet need not be authentic — a costume which then become intangible, too. When she lets go of 
prop suffices, as long as it’s made of actual metal. an item, she can choose to leave it intangible for the dura-

tion, or immediately return it to the material world.

Contracts 143



Loophole: The changeling carries no weapons and is Failure: The Contract fails.
wearing no armor. If she picks up or dons either while us- Dramatic Failure: The changeling enters the tar-
ing this Loophole, the Contract immediately ends unless get’s dream, but suffers the Flesh Too Solid Tilt, and the 
she pays the Glamour cost. dreamer’s Bastion gains +1 Fortification until she wakes.

Steed Beast: The Beast may take on the mien of any of the 
sleeper’s nightmares that he witnessed. Once during the 

Steed is always on the move, traversing both time and current chapter, he can inflict the Spooked Condition on 
space. Where the stallion treads, his hooves punch holes her while interacting with her in the waking world.
in reality that let a changeling travel from one location Fairest: The Fairest sees a glimpse of the dreamer’s soul, 
to another. Embracing the freedom of the wild, Beasts granting him the Informed Condition regarding the sleeper.
favor Steed.

Loophole: The changeling holds a teddy bear or oth-
Boon of the Scuttling  er childhood comfort object that belongs to the target, 
Spider (Common) while using this Contract.

The changeling scuttles across a solid surface strong Nevertread (Common)
enough to support his weight. The changeling leaves only scraps and emptiness in 

Cost: 1 Glamour his wake.
Dice Pool: None Cost: 1 Glamour
Action: Instant Dice Pool: None
Effects: The world flattens in the character’s eye, until Action: Instant

all surfaces are equally horizontal and equally upside down. Effects: The changeling stops to cloak one of his 
He can move along walls, ceilings, or slick surfaces normally footprints: He can drop leaves over it, erase it and leave a 
too treacherous to cross, as long as they are strong enough pebble in its stead, or sculpt the earth until it resembles a 
to carry his weight. He can move at his normal Speed, and hoof track. He then continues on his way, and the Contract 
acts without hindrance while moving in this fashion. changes all his footprints accordingly for the duration. This 

Beast: The Courser embraces all of the spider’s ad- makes him impossible to track save by supernatural means, 
vantages, including its webbing. He may use the restrain triggering a Clash of Wills, and altered tracks remain so 
move in a grapple as though he had rolled an exceptional even after the Contract ends.
success, even if he didn’t. Beast: The Beast lets people traveling with him ben-

Darkling: The Darkling instinctively sticks to the efit from this Contract, up to double his Stealth rating in 
shadows, granting his player a two-die bonus on Stealth companions. He still need only invoke the Contract once.
rolls while he scuttles on improbable surfaces. Wizened: The Domovoi’s footsteps leave traps in 

Loophole: The changeling swallows a live spider. their wake, per the Safe Place Merit (p. 125) with effec-

Dreamsteps (Common) tive dots equal to his Dexterity.
Loophole: The changeling leaves a note, bloody fin-

The changeling steps into the dreams of a nearby gerprint, or other clue of his passing. He can hide this, but 
sleeper, to travel from the mortal world into the dreamer’s it must provide a clue to his identity if found.
Bastion. He touches a sleeping target, and synchronizes 
his breathing with hers until he can see her dreams. He Pathfinder (Common)
then steps forward into them. Combining practical navigation with omens and 

Cost: 1 Glamour divination, the changeling finds his way in the Hedge to 
Dice Pool: Intelligence + Empathy + Wyrd vs. Bas- Hollows, trods, goblin fruit, and dreams.

tion’s Fortification Cost: 1 Glamour
Action: Contested Dice Pool: None
Duration: Instant Action: Instant

Roll Results Effects: The changeling mingles some of his spit or 
Success: The changeling enters the dreamer’s Bas- blood with earth from the Hedge, and uses the mixture to 

tion through the Gate of Ivory (p. 215), rather than enter- draw a compass on his hand. He instinctively knows the 
ing his own. distance and the direction of the nearest general Hedge 

feature of his choice — the nearest Goblin Market or Hol-
Exceptional Success:  The dreamer’s Bastion suffers a low, a patch of goblin fruit, or an entrance to the Gate of 

−1 to Fortification until she wakes.

144 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Horn, for instance. The Contract only reveals information the character can clear a jumping trajectory of 10 yards/
about the Hedge itself, not about creatures lurking within. meters per dot of Wyrd he possesses. 

Beast: The Grim’s finely honed instincts also yield Beast: Seven-League Leap increases the Beast’s 
information about nearby creatures: how many creatures Speed by 10 for the scene. If he used this Contract in a 
they are, and whether they mean ill. “Meaning ill” is not foot chase (p. 195), he gains the Edge next turn.
immutable — if the changeling pisses off a friendly goblin, Ogre: The Ogre can use his leap as an unarmed attack 
it might then mean him ill. to crush an enemy, adding two to his Strength for the at-

Wizened: The Wizened automatically knows wheth- tack roll, and inflicting the Knocked Down Tilt if he hits.
er goblin fruits that grow nearby are beneficial or detri- Loophole: The changeling is wearing boots he stole 
mental, and gleans their types. from an enemy in this scene.

Loophole: The changeling has taken at least 1L 
damage in this scene before invoking the Contract from Chrysalis (Royal)
a source that is part of the Hedge, such as a thorn or a The changeling calls upon the savage nature that fueled 
hobgoblin’s knife. his escape from Arcadia, howling like a great beast, or scut-

Seven-League Leap (Common) tling like an insect. He feels his own identity slip, drowned by 
the comfort of just being, and his body follows suit.

The changeling leaps legendary distances, clearing Cost: 2 Glamour
chasms and obstacles in a single bound. Dice Pool: None

Cost: 1 Glamour Action: Instant
Dice Pool: None Effects: The changeling chooses two animals when the 
Action: Reflexive player purchases this power, and can transform into either 
Duration: One turn one by invoking it. He must have seen the animal before (an 
Effects: The changeling hops up and down, regal- accurate representation works), and it can’t be smaller than 

ing the air with stories of his athletic prowess. The player Size 1 or larger than Size 7. He can choose a mythical beast, 
then makes a jumping roll (Strength + Athletics), and though he gains none of its supernal powers — only the 

Contracts 145



physical form: Physical Attributes, Size, Speed, and Health. Cost: 3 Glamour + 1 Willpower
He can also use the animal’s mundane senses and modes of Dice Pool: Intelligence + Occult + Wyrd vs. Re-
movement; he can’t levitate, but as a winged dragon he could solve + Wyrd
fly. If he transforms into an aquatic animal, he copies its gills Action: Instant or contested; see below
and aquatic lungs. While in animal form, the character can 
communicate with other animals of the assumed species. Duration: Special

Beast: The character can choose two additional ani- Roll Results
mal forms when the player purchases this Contract. Success: The changeling can send an object up to Size 

Ogre: The character can choose animals up to Size 10 or a character forward in time. The target instantly van-
15 to transform into. ishes and reappears at the predetermined time in the same 

Loophole: The changeling is in the natural habitat location, conserving momentum if it was moving. If some-
of his chosen animal and is near enough to touch at least thing else occupies that spot, the target appears next to it 
one of them. instead. No time passes for the target. Sentient beings can 

contest this Contract. The changeling determines how far 
Flickering Hours (Royal) into the future he sends the target, to a maximum of days 

The changeling picks meandering paths through the equal to successes rolled to invoke Leaping Toward Nightfall.
Hedge, stopping occasionally to smell a flower or prick his The changeling cannot end this Contract prematurely.
finger on a thorn. While his path seems random at best, Exceptional Success: The changeling may also send 
and ineffectual at worst, the changeling is actually weav- the target to a new location occupied by someone to 
ing an enchantment with his footsteps that allows him to whom he owes a debt. He can’t choose the location itself, 
slow or speed the passage of time. only the character who will receive the incoming target 

Cost: 1 Glamour for the changeling alone, 1 Glamour when it arrives in the future.
+ 1 Willpower for a group Failure: The Contract fails.

Dice Pool: None Dramatic Failure: The changeling sends a random 
Action: Instant target forward in time instead, chosen by the Storyteller, 
Duration: Until the changeling exits the Hedge which could be himself. Upon arrival, the target suffers 

either the Volatile Condition (for objects) or the Spooked 
Effects: The changeling can extend this Contract to Condition (for characters).

anyone traveling with him at the moment he invokes it; hos-
tile pursuers, if they’re close on his heels, included. He may Beast: The Beast may allow the ravages of time to 
slow time by half, or speed it up to pass twice as quickly, for buffet sentient targets, inflicting the Disoriented Con-
any of the targets individually. Until the sun next crosses the dition. The target must either find an ally to resolve it 
horizon, anyone quickened also gains the Fleet of Foot Mer- (landmarks don’t help), or let it fade without resolution at 
it, with effective dots equal to the changeling’s Wyrd up to the end of the scene in which she arrives. 
three, and always has the Edge in a chase. Unwilling targets Darkling: Upon arrival in the future, the target 
may pull free of the effect by succeeding at a Resolve + Wyrd doesn’t remember the scene in which the Mountebank 
roll contested by the changeling’s Wits + Occult + Wyrd. invoked this Contract. This effect is permanent unless 

Beast: The Savage may freely extend this Contract reversed through supernatural means, which triggers a 
to anyone he meets on his journey, if he spends the Will- Clash of Wills against the changeling.
power cost to include others once. Loophole: The changeling destroys a piece of the 

Elemental: The path becomes nearly impassable in the target, such as a hair, fingernail, or bodily fluid; an Icon; 
Elemental’s wake, and suffers the mechanical effects of the or something from the target’s dreams.
Ice Tilt with specifics appropriate to his associated element. Mirror Walk (Royal)

Loophole: The changeling smashes an antique clock or 
other old timekeeping instrument as he invokes the Contract. The changeling steps into a mirror. He hears baying 

hounds in the distance, and senses a dark chill in the air. 
Leaping Toward Nightfall The changeling cuts his finger, leaving a bloody print on one 
(Royal) of the myriad mirrors before him, and wills it to open to any 

mirror of his choice in either the mortal world or the Hedge.
The changeling touches his target, and speaks an impos- Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower

sible riddle that both curses and blesses her with time. What 
she has will be lost, what she lost will be found. When he Dice Pool: Wits + Survival + Wyrd
finishes the riddle, and the target’s mind tries to wrap itself Action: Instant
around the conundrum, he sends her hurtling through time. Duration: Instant

146 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Roll Results •	 The character gains the claws of a beast, giving his 
Success: The changeling touches a reflective surface. unarmed Brawl attacks a weapon modifier of +0L. 

Once the way is open, the changeling can step through, If his unarmed attacks already deal lethal damage, 
bringing any companions he likes in a chain of linked his claws become preternaturally sharp and deal 
hands, or simply reach his hand through to grab an ob- aggravated damage instead.
ject on the other side. The changeling must have touched Beast: The Courser doesn’t tire, immune to mun-
the exiting mirror before, and both the entrance and exit dane fatigue of any kind. Supernatural powers that make 
must be large enough for him to physically pass his body him tired trigger a Clash of Wills.
or hand through. Darkling: A Darkling may add venomous fangs or 

Exceptional Success: The mirrors remain portals for claws to his transformation for one extra point of Glam-
the scene, and anyone may pass through freely with the our. Outside action scenes, this venom has Toxicity equal 
changeling’s permission in either direction, without the to his Wyrd and deals damage once per hour, for a num-
need to link hands. ber of hours equal to (six − the target’s Stamina) hours. 

Failure: The Contract fails. In action timing, a successful attack inflicts the grave 
Dramatic Failure: The changeling becomes lost in Poisoned Tilt on his target. The poison remains in effect 

mirror space, which is part of the Hedge, and gains the even after the Contract ends.
Lost Condition. If he was reaching for an object instead, Loophole: The changeling eats a piece of fur, a talon, 
he drops it in mirror space. or another part of an animal he wants to emulate.

Beast: The Beast may end the Contract before he 
reaches the other side, deliberately depositing himself in Sword
mirror space; his player gains a two-die bonus to all rolls Wielders of Sword are forceful and aggressive: They 
to navigate there or deal with its denizens for the scene. strike first, overpowering foes whether fighting or sparring 

Elemental: The Sprite becomes mirror-like after exit- with words. Sword emulates nature’s fury — both of the world 
ing the portal, only reflecting what is already in the room. and of Arcadia — and is the favored Regalia of Elementals.
This renders him invisible to the naked eye for a number of 
minutes equal to successes rolled to invoke the Contract. Elemental Weapon (Common)

Loophole: The changeling speaks the name or title The changeling wields the elements themselves as 
of a character currently reflected in the mirror where he weapons.
plans to exit. This can be a guess on the changeling’s part, Cost: 2 Glamour
whether because he knows little Mary goes to bed at seven Dice Pool: Presence + Survival + Wyrd
and brushes her hair in the mirror beforehand, or because Action: Instant
Mr. Witherfield locks up at five and his shop’s door has 
glass in it. If the person isn’t there, the Loophole doesn’t Roll Results
work, and he doesn’t invoke the Contract. Success: The character grabs a nearby element — 

Talon and Wing (Royal) such as water from a pond, flames from a fireplace, a rose 
from its bush, or electricity from a wall socket — and 

The character spreads his arms, or paws the ground, shapes it into any archaic weapon of her choosing; for 
remembering dreams of flying. He then opens his mouth, example, fiery gauntlets that enhance her Brawl attacks, 
to consume the dream and claim its power for his own. a frozen sword to wield in melee, or thrown javelins of 

Cost: 1-3 Glamour lightning. The weapon has normal traits for its kind 
Dice Pool: None (p. 323), to which the player can add any of the fol-

lowing: +1 weapon modifier per success spent, or de-
Action: Instant crease the Initiative penalty by one per success spent, 
Effects: This Contract can grant three different ef- or +20/40/80 range per success spent, to a maximum of 

fects, which a character can stack at a cost of one point three successes per option. She may mix and match suc-
of Glamour each. cesses among these options.
•	 The character gains the mode of transportation of Exceptional Success: The weapon gains additional 

a beast, increasing his Speed by 10. bonuses, as above.
Failure: The Contract fails.

•	 The character gains the senses of a beast, giving 
his player a three-die bonus to perception rolls and Dramatic Failure: The element reacts in a wild and 
eliminating penalties in dim lighting or darkness. dangerous manner, inflicting an appropriate Tilt on the 

changeling.

Contracts 147



Darkling: The Mountebank creates a weapon from Action: Contested
shadows, which can also inflict the Blinded Tilt (both Duration: Instant
eyes) instead of dealing damage on a successful hit.

Elemental: If the Elemental creates a weapon that fits Roll Results
her own elemental affinity, it merges with her Mask and mien Success: Channeling her quiet destruction into her tar-
to make her look terrifying — arcing flames leap up from the get, she curses him with the Frightened Condition (p. 339).
gauntlets to envelop her, or ice from the sword crawls along Exceptional Success: Next time the changeling sees 
her body to create spikes. The player may make one Presence the target after the Contract ends, invoking it against him 
+ Intimidation roll while the character wields the weapon, again costs no Glamour.
contested by one opponent’s Stamina + Wyrd. If she wins, Failure: The Contract fails.
the target suffers the Stunned Tilt. Changelings of other Dramatic Failure: The changeling’s Contract turns 
seemings with this benefit use their teacher’s favored element. against her, giving her the Spooked Condition. 

Loophole: The character performs a showy trick Elemental: The Elemental can invoke this power on 
with the mundane version of the element as an instant one additional target, contested separately by each, as she 
action. This does not inflict damage if she invokes this infuses the air itself with dread.
Contract immediately after.

Fairest: The Fairest can choose to instead make the 
Might of the Terrible Brute target fear his surroundings, then go comfort him. He 
(Common) gains the Swooned Condition regarding her.

The changeling flexes her muscles as she grows in size Loophole: The changeling stands in shadows and 
while wrestling an opponent, hunched posture creating takes the target by surprise.
the image of a hulking brute. Primal Glory (Common)

Cost: 2 Glamour
Nature itself allies with the changeling, empowering 

Dice Pool: None her and shielding her from harm.
Action: Reflexive Cost: 2 Glamour
Effects: The character lets out a terrifying roar of fury Dice Pool: None

and defiance, calling on the prowess that once served her 
Keeper and now serves only herself. Whenever the player Action: Instant
wins a contested grapple roll, the changeling gains a new Effects: The character survived the scorching deserts 
option for a move to enact: She may reduce her opponent’s and ice plains of Arcadia; mere mortal elements cannot 
Strength by one and add it to her own. Opponents reduced harm her. She touches an element and it cows before her: 
to Strength 0 this way gain the Immobilized Tilt, unable to She gains immunity to damage from mundane instances of 
effectively perform any Physical actions. She may not in- the element, and suffers only half damage (rounded down) 
crease her Strength by more than +5, but it may exceed her from magical sources. It also curls around her in a protec-
Wyrd-derived limit. tive armor, like a dog eager to please its master, granting 

Beast: The Beast may steal Dexterity instead; she decides her an armor rating of 1/1. The armor hurts anyone who 
which Attribute she steals when she invokes the Contract. comes in close, dealing one point of lethal damage per turn 

to anyone who engages in melee against her.
Elemental: The Elemental temporarily gains the ef-

fects of the Giant Merit as well. Elemental: If the Sprite chose armor made from the 
element for which she has an affinity, it deals its damage 

Loophole: The character herself is grappling multiple to anyone within (her Wyrd) yards/meters of her instead.
opponents at once.

Ogre: The hardy Ogre is fully immune to magical 
Overpowering Dread  instances of the chosen element.
(Common) Loophole: The changeling consumes the element 

somehow. She might drink some water, hold her breath 
The changeling dominates her target into fearful sub- for a while, eat a handful of dirt, or put out a candle with 

mission. She stares at her target, though he need not see her tongue and inhale the smoke.
her, while she slowly and methodically destroys an object: 
She can tear strips from a piece of paper, pull the hairs Touch of Wrath (Common)
from a doll, or commit another act of meticulous savagery.

The changeling’s touch wreaks havoc, splintering 
Cost: 1 Glamour stone and wrecking metal.
Dice Pool: Presence + Intimidation + Wyrd vs. Cost: 1 Glamour

Composure + Wyrd

148 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Dice Pool: Intelligence + Crafts + Wyrd Action: Instant
Action: Instant Duration: A fortnight, or until used
Duration: Instant Roll Results

Roll Results Success: The changeling senses the most serious 
Success: The changeling touches an object and, promise the target has broken for which he has not yet 

whispering sweet threats to it, sinks her nails into stone, atoned, whether he broke an actual oath or just didn’t go 
or rends deep gashes in metal. She deals one point of dam- to school when he told his parent he would. Atonement 
age to the object for each success rolled. means a full confession to wronged parties, as well as re-

Exceptional Success: The changeling’s touch ig- pairing any harm. The changeling can sculpt one wak-
nores Durability. ing nightmare for each success rolled, to visit the target 

within the next fortnight. This nightmare must involve 
Failure: The Contract fails. the broken promise in some way: A cheating spouse might 
Dramatic Failure: The Contract touches an unin- have a sudden image of his husband murdering him dur-

tended object, chosen by the Storyteller, and gives it the ing dinner, while the kid playing hooky might see his 
Volatile Condition. teacher (once he returns to school) as a monster. These 

Elemental: The Torrent’s touch inflicts double dam- waking nightmares are valid targets for oneiromancy 
age on objects made entirely from natural materials. while they’re happening and each lasts one scene, creat-

Wizened: The Wizened need merely look at the item ing a Bastion along a Dreaming Road even though the 
to use this Contract. target isn’t asleep.

Loophole: The object’s owner stole (or attempted to Exceptional Success: The changeling senses all broken 
steal) something of value from the changeling, or cheated vows for which her target has not yet atoned and can sculpt 
(or attempted to cheat) her, in this scene. her nightmares around any (or a combination) of them.

Failure: The Contract fails.
Elemental Fury (Royal) Dramatic Failure: The target immediately knows 

The changeling’s fury shapes the physical world, the most significant oath the changeling has broken or 
causing storms, earthquakes, or raging fires. deal upon which she’s reneged.

Cost: 1+ Glamour Wizened: The Shrewd gleans all details of the bro-
Dice Pool: None ken oath. For example, she learns not just that the tar-

get broke his wedding vows, but that he cheated on his 
Action: Instant husband with a brunette because he feels lonely when his 
Effects: The character channels her fury outward, spouse works long nights.

screaming to the sky, and inflicting one Environmen- Elemental: The Elemental may make the details of 
tal Tilt of her choice per point of Glamour she spends. the target’s broken promise obvious to anyone watching, 
The area extends 20 yards/meters around the character, publicizing his shame and inflicting the Notoriety Condi-
though she herself is immune to its effects. She may also tion upon him. 
spend additional points of Glamour to extend the Tilt 20 
more yards/meters per point spent. Loophole: The target swore a promise to the change-

ling within this scene, which is still in effect. This prom-
Elemental: Elemental Fury deals bashing damage ise need not be an oath, and can be made in the heat of 

equal to the Torrent’s Presence to anyone caught in its the moment, such as “I will defeat you!”
area of effect when she invokes the Contract.

Fairest: The Muse may protect any targets she can Red Revenge (Royal)
see from the Tilt’s effects. The changeling fills with passion and fury, turning 

Loophole: The changeling publicly rants, swears rage into unparalleled strength and fortitude.
vengeance, or otherwise proclaims her rage to all present. Cost: 3 Glamour
Oathbreaker’s Punishment Dice Pool: None
(Royal) Action: Instant

The changeling knows the value of a promise made, Effects: The changeling raises her hands to the sky, 
and the horror of one broken. She watches her target, and calling to all the hatred and misery that exists in this 
the red haze of lingering betrayal around him. wretched world. Her skin breaks open as the wrath flows 

in her, and a blood-red aura surrounds her. She gains +3 
Cost: 2 Glamour to her Initiative, Intimidation, and Physical Attribute 
Dice Pool: Wits + Empathy + Wyrd − Composure

Contracts 149



ratings, which also increases derived traits. She gains 3/3 Successfully dealing Clarity damage with Thief of 
armor and the Berserk Condition, as well. Reason is a breaking point with a pool of four dice.

Elemental: The Torrent gains an additional +1 Exceptional Success: The Clarity attack gains more 
weapon modifier on Brawl and Weaponry attacks. dice, as above.

Ogre: The Ogre’s attacks also inflict the Knocked Failure: The Contract fails.
Down Tilt. Dramatic Failure: The changeling gains the Disso-

Loophole: The changeling uses this Contract to ex- ciation Condition.
act vengeance for a loved one or friend. Elemental: Successes rolled on the Clarity attack add 

Relentless Pursuit (Royal) to the changeling’s Wyrd for purposes of determining the 
Clarity damage pool.

The changeling becomes like the Huntsman, pursu- Fairest: A Fairest may pay one additional point of 
ing her prey with singular determination. Glamour to postpone the effect until a trigger of her 

Cost: 2 Glamour choice occurs. If the trigger does not come to pass within 
Dice Pool: None a day, the Contract ends. 
Action: Instant Loophole: The changeling coaxed the subject into 
Duration: Until the sun next passes the horizon making a statement doubting her own sanity, within this 

scene. This statement works even if it was made in hyper-
Effects: The changeling sniffs the air, speaking her bole or jest, such as “my boss is driving me nuts!”

target’s name or a description of him, to follow the trail 
of his nightmares. She instinctively knows the direc- Court Contracts
tion and rough distance of her target. If he is in another 
realm, she knows which one. If the target is using super- A court bargains for Contracts with its patron, 
natural means to evade pursuers, this Contract triggers a which can be anything from a season to a concept or 
Clash of Wills. direction. Mantle shapes these Contracts: The more en-

gaged a changeling is in his court, the more he may call 
Beast: The Savage also receives a brief vision of what on its protection. If a character doesn’t have the appro-

her target is doing at the moment she invokes the Contract. priate Mantle, he can use Court Goodwill for his rolls 
Elemental: The Elemental may hide from the sun’s rays instead. 

as it crosses the horizon, spending a point of Glamour to Court Contracts are also divided into Common 
prolong Relentless Pursuit and gain a +1 modifier on rolls and Royal Contracts, though it’s the court’s patron that 
her player makes for the chase. She can repeat this indefi- upholds this distinction. Members of the dominant, in-
nitely, but her chase modifier does not increase beyond +5. season court lower the exceptional success threshold of 

Loophole: The changeling possesses a piece of the Royal Contracts to three, while members of the subservi-
target, such as a hair, fingernail, or bodily fluid; an Icon; ent, out-of-season courts gain two bonus dice to invoke 
or something from the target’s dreams. Common Contracts. This willingness to accept the rule 

Thief of Reason (Royal) of one and subservience of three as the seasons rotate 
strengthens the Bargains the courts made with their pa-

Harnessing memories of horrors suffered in Arca- trons. Other court structures, with other ways of cyclical-
dia, the changeling erodes another’s mental stability. She ly ceding power, gain the same benefits whenever they’re 
laughs at her target, her horrible cackle a rising crescendo. in or out of power.

Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower Learning a Common Court Contract requires at least 
Dice Pool: Presence + Subterfuge + Wyrd − Resolve Mantle 1, or Court Goodwill 2. Likewise, learning a Royal 
Action: Instant Court Contract requires Mantle 3, or Court Goodwill 5. 

The seasonal courts make two exceptions: anyone can 
Duration: Instant learn any one Common Contract, and allies with Court 

Roll Results Goodwill 4 can learn any one Royal Contract, as a way for 
Success: Roll the successes achieved on the invoca- the court to foster allies. So Wisperlee the Winter Court-

tion roll as a dice pool to attack the target’s Clarity. If the ier could learn a Common Spring, a Common Summer, 
target suffers Clarity damage as a result, he also loses a and a Common Autumn Contract of her choice regardless 
Willpower point from the sudden psychic shock. If this of her Court Goodwill. If Wisperlee has Autumn Good-
Contract targets a non-changeling, the “damage” to the will 4, she can also learn one Royal Autumn Contract. 
target’s equivalent trait is temporary and vanishes at the Common Court Contracts cost 3 Experiences each, while 
end of the scene. Royal Court Contracts cost 4 Experiences each, for court-

iers and allies alike.

150 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Invoking a Court Contract carries the same Mantle Dice Pool: Presence + Expression + Mantle vs. 
and Goodwill requirements as above. If a changeling loses Composure + Wyrd
his Mantle or Goodwill, and no longer qualifies to pur- Action: Contested
chase a Contract he already knows, he can pay an addi- Duration: Minutes equal to successes rolled
tional point of Glamour on top of the Contract’s normal 
cost to invoke it anyway. He must pay this Glamour even Roll Results
when using the Loophole. The changeling can do this a Success: A soft breeze carries the song to the change-
total number of times equal to his Mantle or Court Good- ling’s target, who must be within his line of sight. The 
will dots before the court takes offense and he earns the target falls into magical slumber; nothing short of lethal 
Notoriety Condition when dealing with their members. damage can wake her. Once the Contract ends, the target 
Gaining the Condition need not stop him, though — he continues sleeping normally.
can thumb his nose at the court and keep using these Exceptional Success: The magical sleep lasts the en-
Contracts as often as he likes; at least, until the queen tire scene. 
puts her foot down more firmly.

Failure: The Contract fails.
Spring Contracts Dramatic Failure: The changeling falls into a magi-

Spring is the season of desire, growth, gentle warmth, cal slumber for minutes equal to his Mantle rating.
and soft rains. This is also the season where all endings Loophole: The changeling sprinkles sand into his 
have their beginning, though, and the season of passion target’s eyes when invoking the Contract, which requires 
running wayward. Spring Courtiers are apt at using desire a successful Dexterity + Athletics – Defense roll if the 
as carrot and stick to get what they want. target is unwilling.

Cupid’s Arrow (Common) Gift of Warm Breath  
The changeling sees into another’s heart and charts (Common)

the course of her desire. He touches her skin or hair, pulling The changeling fills his target with the energy and 
her desires away with his caress for him to study and alter. life of Spring.

Cost: 1 Glamour Cost: 1 Glamour
Dice Pool: Wits + Empathy + Mantle vs. Compo- Dice Pool: None

sure + Wyrd Action: Instant
Action: Contested Duration: Instant

Roll Results Effects: The changeling touches his target, who must 
Success: The changeling learns the subject’s most ar- be willing. His hands emit a soft glow, which spreads to 

dent desire, and any Conditions or Tilts connected to it. her skin as his Spring Mantle softly draws her into an 
This desire can even be one the target is unaware of. He embrace. The target instantly sheds all fatigue penalties, 
may replace this desire with one of his choice. The target’s Tilts relating to fatigue and temporary illnesses (such as 
passion for the original desire, along with any Conditions Sick or Poisoned), and bashing wounds.
or Tilts it engendered, turns toward the new for the scene. Loophole: The changeling gives the target some-

Exceptional Success: The changeling instinctively thing to eat or drink that he made himself.
knows of any obstacles between his target and her desire.

Spring’s Kiss (Common)
Failure: The Contract fails.
Dramatic Failure: The changeling believes his tar- The changeling calls down spring rains to kiss the 

get’s desire is something it’s not, chosen by the Storyteller earth. He raises his hands to the sky, imploring Spring to 
or target’s player. quench the thirst of the earth and all her plants.

Loophole: The changeling is holding a living ivy flower. Cost: 1-2 Glamour
Dice Pool: None

Dreams of the Earth  Action: Instant
(Common) Effects: Rain falls as the changeling wishes within 

Spring is the season of awakening, when life returns (Mantle) miles, anything from a drizzle to a downpour. 
to the world. The changeling sings a lullaby of seeds sleep- This may inflict the Heavy Rain Tilt by default, and the 
ing under the earth, and blooms still resting in the bud. Flooded Tilt for an extra point of Glamour.

Cost: 2 Glamour Loophole: The changeling is wearing bright yellow 
rain boots and cap.

Contracts 151



Wyrd-Faced Stranger  changes last for the scene, after which all the damage and 
(Common) Conditions return, and unused goblin fruits vanish. The tar-

get becomes ravenous and must consume three days’ worth 
The changeling cloaks himself in his target’s desires. of sustenance immediately after the Contract ends.
Cost: 1 Glamour No target may waive the contesting roll; fae magic 
Dice Pool: Presence + Subterfuge + Mantle vs. must overcome stubborn reality.

Composure + Wyrd Exceptional Success: The target matures a full year in-
Action: Contested stead. Plants yield more fruits and seeds as they speed through 

Roll Results the seasons. The Contract regrows any missing limbs on an 
animal or person, and changeling targets shed one Persis-

Success: The changeling closes his eyes and lets his tent Clarity Condition, healing two points of Clarity damage 
target’s dreams envelop him. When he opens his eyes, he but earning no Beats. The Contract speeds the pregnancy 
looks like whomever his target most wants to see. He can of animals and willing human targets by 12 months — the 
use this Contract on a group and choose one person as patron of Spring refuses to enact this Contract on unwilling 
the target, but the highest Composure among them op- pregnant humans. Any offspring, be they seeds or creatures, 
poses his roll. All observers see him as the same person. are unaffected once they separate from the target. As with 
He can also appear as someone the target doesn’t know success, these changes last for the scene, although if a target 
but desires to see, such as a dashing stranger. gave birth within the scene, that change is permanent.

Convincing interaction may require a successful Social Failure: The Contract fails.
roll if the changeling acts out of character for the person he 
appears to be. He gains (Mantle) bonus dice on such rolls. Dramatic Failure: Target creatures gain the Fatigued 

Condition, and plants wither.
Exceptional Success: The deception lasts until the 

next dawn. Loophole: The changeling decorates his target with 
ribbons and dances around her.

Failure: The Contract fails.
Dramatic Failure: The changeling appears as the Gift of Warm Blood (Royal)

person the target least wants to see, and doesn’t know this. The changeling creates an ointment from dreams 
Loophole: The changeling has something of emo- and the memory of spring flowers, and salves his target’s 

tional value to his target in his pocket. This value can be wounds with it. 
symbolic, such as the keys to a beloved apartment. Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower
Blessing of Spring (Royal) Dice Pool: Wits + Medicine + Mantle

The changeling takes a day brewing the beginning Action: Instant
and end of Spring together into a cordial: dew drops col- Duration: Instant
lected in the morning, flowers plucked during the day, Roll Results
and starlight harvested at night, all infused with the 
changeling’s Glamour. Even the memory of such things Success: Each success on the invocation roll down-
suffices. With it, he blesses a living creature or plant grades one of the target’s wounds: from aggravated to le-
with a spring’s worth of growth and healing. thal, lethal to bashing, or bashing to fully healed.

Cost: 2 Glamour (animals and plants), or 2 Glamour Exceptional Success: Any remaining points of bash-
+ 1 Willpower (sapient creatures) ing damage are also healed.

Dice Pool: Intelligence + Medicine + Mantle vs. Failure: The Contract fails.
Stamina + Wyrd (sapient creatures) Dramatic Failure: One point of damage upgrades from 

Action: Instant or contested; see above bashing to lethal, or lethal to aggravated if all are already le-
thal. The changeling may pay an extra point of Willpower to 

Roll Results prevent this, if the upgraded damage would kill his patient.
Success: The target who drinks the cordial matures, Loophole: The changeling adds his own blood to the 

growing months in mere moments and looking as she would mixture, taking one point of lethal damage.
at the height of spring. Plants, including goblin-fruit trees, 
are in bloom, and yield spring fruits immediately. The Con- Pandora’s Gift (Royal)
tract heals people and animals of all wounds, and cures any The changeling shapes emotions and dreams to cre-
illnesses or poisons that would yield with time. Changeling ate an object his target desires. Her touch leaves scraps of 
targets also shed one temporary Clarity Condition, healing her desire behind, and ephemeral shards of hope clinging 
one point of Clarity damage but earning no Beats. These to the tools.

152 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Cost: 2 Glamour Loophole: The changeling stands barefoot in soil, 
Dice Pool: None and cuts his hand to sprinkle blood on the earth, inflict-
Action: Instant ing one point of lethal damage.

Duration: Until the sun next crosses the horizon Waking the Inner Fae (Royal)
Effect: When the changeling pays the Contract’s The changeling pushes his target to pursue her great-

cost, the target must touch a tool or material the change- est desires with the boundless energy of Spring. He creates 
ling will use in the crafting, although it could be anything a crown of flowers from nothing, weaving passion and luck 
from an incidental brush to an attack. If he uses a power into each petal.
that negates the need for tools, the target must touch him Cost: 1 Glamour
instead. He then shapes his target’s desires into an object 
using the Build Equipment rules (p. 196), starting within Dice Pool: Manipulation + Expression + Mantle vs. 
one hour of the touch. The changeling may not know Composure + Wyrd
what he’s making, but his hands move by their own ac- Action: Contested
cord. The item can be anything from the key to a lover’s Duration: Instant
apartment to a weapon capable of slaying a Huntsman, 
and remains until the sun next crosses the horizon. Halve Roll Results
the usual time it would take to build the object. If the Success: The changeling presents the wreath as a gift to 
changeling uses the item as a bribe or bargaining chip, he his target, who accepts it and puts it on. It immediately van-
gains three bonus dice on the Social roll; if successful, he ishes from sight, but the target gains the Wanton Condition. 
regains one point of the Glamour spent on this Contract. Once per scene for the rest of the current story, whenever the 

Loophole: The target gave the changeling a valuable changeling successfully tempts the target into doing some-
or sentimental gift, no strings attached, during this scene. thing, he regains a point of Willpower. He may only have one 
This still works even if he coaxed the target into giving designated target from whom to gain Willpower at a time.
him the gift for this purpose. Exceptional Success: The target also gains the Per-

sistent Obsession Condition regarding her current great-
Prince of Ivy (Royal) est desire.

The changeling turns the green of Spring against his Failure: The Contract fails.
enemies. He loudly rebukes them, spitting on the ground Dramatic Failure: The changeling cannot give up the 
as he says their names. crown and wears it himself, pursuing his own desires regard-

Cost: 2 Glamour + 1 Willpower less of risk. He gains the Reckless Condition, and may not 
Dice Pool: Presence + Expression + Mantle regain Willpower via his Thread for the rest of the scene.
Action: Instant Loophole: The changeling told the target one of his 

own secret desires within the last scene. 
Roll Results

Success: Vines shoot out of the ground where the Summer Contracts
changeling spat, and all nearby plants grow similar tangles Summer is the season of sweltering heat and wrath, of 
at an impossible rate, to ensnare his enemies. For the Con- oaths of enmity and striking down one’s enemies without 
tract’s duration, the character may make one new grapple mercy.
attempt per turn on any target within three yards/meters of 
a plant instead of moving, in addition to his instant action. Baleful Sense (Common)
He may sacrifice his action to make a second new grapple The changeling sniffs her target, and senses the in-
attempt, and his Defense until his next turn for a third. His toxicating scent of his deep anger and frustration. She 
contested grapple rolls for ongoing grapples are reflexive. feeds it until it lashes out indiscriminately.
The plants use a dice pool of 3 + successes rolled to invoke 
this Contract. The effect follows the changeling as he moves. Cost: 1 Glamour

Exceptional Success: Each time a new turn begins at Dice Pool: Wits + Intimidation + Mantle vs. Com-
the top of the Initiative order, the plants automatically in- posure + Wyrd
flict one point of bashing damage on all grappled targets. Action: Contested

Failure: The Contract fails. Roll Results
Dramatic Failure: Plants turn against the changeling Success: The changeling instinctively knows the tar-

and his allies, attacking as below on their own Initiative get’s greatest wrath, and any Conditions or Tilts connected 
count, for a number of turns equal to the changeling’s Mantle. to it. The target may be in denial about his anger, but the 

Contracts 153



changeling can still smell it. The changeling may replace the either. At the same time, the sun’s rays bring the changeling’s 
subject of the wrath with one of her choice. The target’s an- own temperature up or down, removing the Personal Extreme 
ger toward the original subject, along with any Conditions Heat or Extreme Cold Tilt if the changeling suffers either.
or Tilts it engendered, turns toward the new for the scene. This Contract still works indoors, at night, or un-

Exceptional Success: The changeling gleans the de- der other circumstances when the sun isn’t visible — the 
tails of her target’s anger, such as its origins and what’s hold- sun’s warmth still remains, after all, and even these fading 
ing him back from destroying the source of it. She may coax sparks come to the changeling’s aid.
him into physically attacking the source without a roll, as Loophole: The character blows on a fading ember 
long as the target doesn’t believe such an attack is suicidal. or spark.

Failure: The Contract fails.
Dramatic Failure: The changeling becomes so angry she Helios’ Light (Common)

suffers a two-die penalty on the next (Mantle) rolls she makes. The changeling channels the sun’s light through her 
Loophole: The changeling coaxed her target into own body.

screaming at her this scene. Cost: 1 Glamour

Child of the Hearth (Common) Dice Pool: None
Action: Instant

The changeling stamps her feet on the ground, de- Effects: The character declares herself a child of the sun 
claring that no amount of heat or cold can move her. The — where she walks, so goes the heavenly body. At that, a light 
sun, lover of Summer, approves of her bold claim and spreads from her sternum to envelop her body until she is pain-
rushes to makes her words true. ful to look at. The light illuminates an area around her with 

Cost: 1 Glamour a diameter of up to (Mantle x 20) yards/meters, and anyone 
Dice Pool: None looking directly at her gains the Blinded Tilt (both eyes). The 
Action: Instant light is true sunlight, but channeling it through a body of flesh 
Effects: At the changeling’s behest, the sun’s warmth diminishes some of its power: Creatures harmed by sunlight 

either fills or withdraws from the area, inflicting the Environ- take half the damage they normally would, rounded down.
mental Extreme Heat or Extreme Cold Tilt on the area the Loophole: The changeling is in pitch darkness and 
size of a large room; the changeling is immune to the effects of cannot see.

154 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



High Summer’s Zeal (Common) Roll Results
A foe willing to face the changeling on the battlefield Success: The power of the changeling’s rebuke inflicts 

should be willing to die on her blade — at least, that’s her rolled successes as points of bashing damage, or lethal 
Summer’s opinion. She backs it up with a challenge shout- against fae beings. It also removes two Doors in Social ma-
ed to the sky, for all to hear. neuvering, but worsens the target’s impression of the char-

Cost: 2 Glamour acter to hostile immediately.
Dice Pool: Presence + Persuasion + Mantle vs. Exceptional Success: The changeling’s rebuke deals 

Composure + Wyrd lethal damage instead, or aggravated to fae beings.
Action: Reflexive and contested Failure: The Contract fails.

Roll Results Dramatic Failure: The changeling’s tongue ties it-
self up in angry knots, and she gains the Mute Condition, 

Success: Whenever a foe tries to flee a violent conflict which resolves at the end of the scene.
once it’s already begun, the changeling may invoke this Con- Loophole: The changeling verbally asserts domi-
tract to force that foe to spend one Willpower first; other- nance over her target. She can invoke her higher court 
wise, the target must continue to oppose her until it becomes standing, her superior crocheting skills, or her first-edition 
impossible. He can still back off to make ranged attacks or Harper Lee novel, which he doesn’t have. Whatever she 
similar, but can’t take any actions that don’t support trying to bases her claim on must be true.
win. He can’t suffer the Beaten Down Tilt for the duration.

Exceptional Success: The target can’t back off even Flames of Summer (Royal)
to make ranged attacks, and must stay within five yards/ The changeling’s anger gives her strength, as she in-
meters of the changeling. vokes the power of Summer, the relentlessness of fire, and 

Failure: The Contract fails. the endurance of heat.
Dramatic Failure: The changeling’s challenge Cost: 2 Glamour

prompts Summer to back the underdog instead and pro- Dice Pool: Stamina + Survival + Mantle
long the fight; her target heals (the changeling’s Mantle) 
points of damage and gains +1 Initiative. Action: Instant

Loophole: The changeling’s opponent was the one Roll Results
who drew first blood, goaded or not. Success: The changeling seems to grow in stature 

Vigilance of Ares (Common) and wrath, and adds two bonus dice to all Physical rolls 
for the duration. She also ignores wound penalties, and 

Summer is the season of anger and warfare, and its need not roll Stamina to remain conscious if her last 
chosen are always prepared. Health box fills with damage.

Cost: 1 Glamour Exceptional Success: Flames surround the change-
Dice Pool: None ling, giving her unarmed attacks an additional +1L weap-
Action: Reflexive on modifier.

Effects: The changeling has sworn herself to Sum- Failure: The Contract fails.
mer, and its relentless battle against the Gentry. She Dramatic Failure: The Contract drains the target, 
expects violence at every turn, automatically detecting leaving her at Strength 1 for (Mantle) turns.
ambushes, hidden traps, and surprise attacks. She gains a Loophole: Right before invoking this Contract, the 
bonus to Initiative equal to her Mantle rating. character violently ate a chunk of ice, crushing it with her 

Loophole: The changeling executed a martial exer- teeth, to show the power of summer.
cise in this scene. Helios’ Judgment (Royal)
Fiery Tongue (Royal) The changeling binds the sun’s wrath in a single sunbeam, 

The changeling’s angry words can break bones and and wields it against her enemies. She reaches up, screaming 
rend flesh. She rebukes her target, swearing by the Sum- at the top of her lungs, and pulls a single ray of sunlight down 
mer itself that he is incompetent and a fool. from the sky. This works even if the sun is currently down, as 

Cost: 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower she pulls the light from over the horizon, but not indoors.

Dice Pool: Presence + Intimidation + Mantle − Resolve Cost: 1 Glamour, or 1 Glamour + 1 Willpower; see below

Action: Instant Dice Pool: Dexterity + Athletics + Mantle

Duration: Instant Action: Instant

Contracts 155



Roll Results Exceptional Success: The changeling may affect a 
Success: The sunbeam functions as a thrown weap- second target as well; each target contests the invocation 

on with the following traits: Damage (Mantle)L, Ranges roll separately.
10/30/50 yards/meters, Initiative penalty −2, Strength Failure: The Contract fails.
minimum 2, Size 4. If the player also spends one point of Dramatic Failure: All the changeling accomplish-
Willpower, the damage is aggravated instead. The beam es is pissing her opponent off the usual way; the target 
returns to her hand at the beginning of each turn for the achieves exceptional success on three successes instead of 
Contract’s duration, and is true sunlight in all ways. five on the next action he takes against her.

Exceptional Success: The beam also inflicts the Loophole: The changeling shines a bright light into 
Knocked Down Tilt on a successful hit. the opponent’s eyes as she invokes this Contract, unless 

Failure: The Contract fails. he avoids it with a reflexive Wits + Composure roll.
Dramatic Failure: The changeling collects the sun- Autumn Contracts

beam, and accidentally drops it to the ground, causing the 
Earthquake Tilt. Autumn is the season of last harvest and storms, and 

Loophole: The target is wearing or touching pure gold. governs all things dreadful and unseen.

Solstice Revelation (Royal) Autumn’s Fury (Common)
The changeling calls on the sun to reveal all that is The changeling harnesses the power of a storm to 

hidden. scour his enemies.

Cost: 1 Glamour Cost: 2 or 3 Glamour

Dice Pool: None Dice Pool: None

Action: Instant Action: Instant

Effect: The changeling f loods an area around her Effects: The changeling breathes out, and out, until a 
with a radius of 30 yards/meters with light. Any char- thunderstorm forms from his breath that inflicts the Heavy 
acters currently hidden or disguised through mundane Rain and Heavy Wind Tilts, for 2 Glamour. For an extra 
means must succeed on a Manipulation + Wyrd roll point of Glamour, the storm also strikes foes with lightning; 
with a dice penalty equal to the changeling’s Mantle, the changeling’s player reflexively rolls Presence + Occult − 
or lose their obfuscation. New attempts to hide are im- Defense as an attack against anyone (other than the change-
possible under the bright light. Creatures using super- ling himself) caught in the area at the beginning of each of 
natural powers to hide trigger a Clash of Wills with the their turns. These attacks have a weapon modifier of 1L.
changeling. Even the Mask weakens, and anyone can The changeling can affect an area up to (Mantle x 
make a perception roll with Wits + Composure to see 20) yards/meters. Standing in the eye of the storm, he 
through it. himself suffers no ill effects, and it moves as he does.

Loophole: The changeling loudly reveals a secret she Loophole: The changeling lifts a metal rod into the air, 
was intentionally keeping for all present to hear. then lowers it to point at his enemies, as an instant action.

Sunburnt Heart (Royal) Last Harvest (Common)
The changeling sets her target’s heart aflame inside The changeling brings human emotions to their rip-

his chest with taunts and scorn, scorching it raw. Every est point, ready for Autumn harvest.
angry impulse and frustrated urge he’s ever felt rises to Cost: 1 Glamour
overtake him. Dice Pool: None

Cost: 2 Glamour Action: Instant
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Persuasion + Mantle vs. Duration: One harvesting attempt

Composure + Wyrd
Effects: The character whispers to a target softly, 

Action: Contested telling her secrets he heard from the autumn wind. 
Roll Results He gains the 9-again quality on his next roll to har-

vest Glamour from that target, or 8-again if it resonates 
Success: Inflict the Berserk Condition on the foe, with his court. He may only use this Contract once per 

and gain (the changeling’s Mantle) bonus dice to any chapter.
attempt to direct his fury onto a target other than the 
changeling herself. Loophole: The changeling targets his own Touchstone.

156 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Tale of the Baba Yaga  Witches’ Intuition (Common)
(Common) The changeling senses his target’s fears, and can turn 

The changeling gathers his audience close to him, spin- her to unreasoned fright. He must tell the target one of 
ning a frightful tale of stalkers that hide under the floor- his own secret fears when he invokes the Contract.
boards and beasts that feast on human flesh. Roll once to in- Cost: 1 Glamour
voke this Contract; each target contests it individually. This Dice Pool: Wits + Subterfuge + Mantle vs. Compo-
Contract takes at least a few minutes to invoke. sure + Wyrd

Cost: 1 Glamour Action: Contested
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Subterfuge + Mantle vs. 

Composure + Wyrd Roll Results
Action: Contested Success: The changeling learns the subject’s great-

est fear, and any Conditions or Tilts connected to it. 
Roll Results This fear can even be subconscious. The changeling may 

Success: Making eye contact with his audience, the choose to replace this fear with one of his choice. The 
changeling inflicts the Shaken Condition on one, some, target’s fright of the original subject, along with any Con-
or all of them, at his option. ditions or Tilts it engendered, turns toward the new one 

Exceptional Success: Anyone affected by this Con- for the scene.
tract also must spend a Willpower point to act against the Exceptional Success: The Contract reveals the cir-
changeling for the duration. cumstances that caused the fear, and what would worsen 

Failure: The Contract fails. or lessen it.

Dramatic Failure: The changeling scares himself Failure: The Contract fails.
and gains the Shaken Condition. Dramatic Failure: The changeling tells the target 

Loophole: The changeling weaves this Contract into one of his own fears that she didn’t know yet.
an urban legend with which all listeners are already familiar. Loophole: The changeling eats part of the target. 

This piece may be as small as a droplet of blood acciden-
Twilight’s Harbinger  tally spilled, a nail torn off, or a single stolen hair.
(Common)

Famine’s Bulwark (Royal)
Autumn is the long twilight of the year, a premoni-

tory glimpse of the end to come. With this Contract, the Autumn prepares for the long Winter ahead by gath-
changeling senses the liminality of things and knows a ering as much knowledge as it can fathom. The change-
swan song when she hears one. ling looks to the omens in dried leaves and birds’ migra-

Cost: 1 Glamour tion patterns to foretell doom.

Dice Pool: None Cost: 1 Glamour

Action: Instant Dice Pool: Wits + Occult + Mantle

Duration: Until the lunar month ends, or the ending Action: Instant
comes to pass, whichever comes first Duration: Instant

Effects: The character chooses a currently extant cir- Roll Results
cumstance or event when she invokes the Contract, such Success: For each success on the invocation roll, 
as another supernatural power, a meeting, an affair, or the player may ask the Storyteller one yes-or-no question 
even a life. 13 minutes before the chosen circumstance or about the current situation and receive true answers to all 
event ends, or three turns in an action scene, a creature but one of them — one answer is always false, unless he 
of omens visits the changeling no matter where she is at only rolls one success.
the time to warn her. It might be a black cat or hound, a 
bat, a raven, an owl, or any other animal the changeling’s Exceptional Success: All of the answers are true. In 
culture considers ominous. addition, the changeling also gleans the path toward the 

nearest non-fae supernatural phenomenon or being. He 
Loophole: The changeling carries something with a doesn’t know its location, but his instincts take him there, 

meaningful connection to someone vital to the chosen as long as he makes the journey within the same scene 
circumstance or event. For instance, it could be a lock of that he invoked the Contract.
hair from the person whose death she wishes to foresee, or 
a love letter exchanged between the affair’s participants. Failure: The Contract fails.

Dramatic Failure: The Storyteller gives the player a 

Contracts 157



false omen, about which the changeling gains the temporary another point of Glamour to inflict the Spooked Condition 
Obsession Condition, which resolves when he lands himself on his opponent. He can fly at his usual Speed −3, and can 
or his allies in hot water pursuing the specious doom. flatten his body to slip through small openings. He cannot 

Loophole: The changeling eats the most recent fruit manipulate objects or physically attack.
of a plant he himself raised. Exceptional Success: The character may fly at his 

full Speed. He can also “pick up” and carry through the 
Mien of the Baba Yaga (Royal) air a number of objects equal to his Mantle, each no larger 

The changeling appears as his target’s greatest fear. than Size 1.
He approaches his target from behind, around the corner, Failure: The Contract fails.
from darkness, or another place she can’t see. Autumn Dramatic Failure: The changeling coughs up leaves, 
winds carry the sound of his approach — his fingernails caught halfway to transformation, and suffers the Immo-
screeching along the wall, or his soft, cackling laughter. bilized Tilt for (Mantle) turns.

Cost: 2 Glamour Loophole: The character catches a naturally falling 
Dice Pool: Presence + Intimidation + Mantle vs. leaf at the moment of the Contract’s invocation, or some-

Composure + Wyrd thing else the wind naturally bears aloft, such as a piece 
Action: Contested of errant paper or a bird’s fallen feather.

Roll Results Sorcerer’s Rebuke (Royal)
Success: When the changeling comes into the target’s Just as flowers wither and trees shed their leaves, the 

line of sight, she sees him as her greatest fear. She instantly Autumn sorcerer’s enemies watch their mystical might 
gains the Frightened Condition, and must spend a point of dry up and scatter like loose soil. The changeling must 
Willpower to take any action that requires dice for the dura- touch an opponent to use this Contract (p. 184) and 
tion. Changeling targets may suffer an attack on their Clarity, speak an incantation calling on Autumn to punish those 
at their players’ (or the Storyteller’s) discretion, depending on who would dare oppose its children.
the fear evoked. The changeling may let observers also see Cost: 2 Glamour
him as the target’s greatest fear, and they react accordingly.

Dice Pool: Manipulation + Occult + Mantle – Resolve
Exceptional Success: The target also gains the Immobi-

lized Tilt for a number of turns equal to the changeling’s Mantle. Action: Instant

Failure: The Contract fails. Duration: Instant

Dramatic Failure: The changeling believes the tar- Roll Results
get is his greatest fear, and gains the Spooked Condition. Success: The target loses points of Glamour or an-

Loophole: The changeling whispers the name or title other supernatural power source equal to successes rolled 
of the target’s greatest fear. He must be specific: for ex- to invoke this Contract.
ample, “The Lord of All Things Lost and Found,” rather Exceptional Success: The changeling also inflicts 
than “your Keeper.” the Cowed Condition on the target regarding himself.

Riding the Falling Leaves Failure: The Contract fails.
(Royal) Dramatic Failure: The changeling becomes over-

whelmed by his foe’s power, gaining the Spooked Condition.
The changeling becomes an avatar of Autumn. Wind 

gathers around him, drawing in autumn leaves until he Loophole: The changeling has made a grand speech 
merges with them. or threat at least 30 seconds long, warning the target of 

his mystical might, earlier in this scene. He needn’t get 
Cost: 2 Glamour specific about his capabilities.
Dice Pool: Dexterity + Occult + Mantle
Action: Instant Tasting the Harvest (Royal)

Roll Results The changeling grants his allies courage, by eating 
their fears. One by one, each target speaks aloud of some-

Success: The changeling transforms into a spray of au- thing she fears, and the changeling consumes it. He may 
tumn leaves in all the colors of earth and fire. He is a single bolster himself this way as well.
entity, and resistant to scattering. He may Dodge reflexively 
once per turn, except against attacks that could reasonably Cost: 1 Glamour per target
harm a pile of leaves, such as flames or supernatural winds. Dice Pool: Presence + Subterfuge + Mantle
If he successfully Dodges an attack this way, he may spend Action: Instant

158 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



Roll Results Dice Pool: None
Success: The targets become immune to natural fear, Action: Reflexive

and gain the changeling’s Mantle rating in bonus dice to Effects: The changeling’s skin takes on a pallid blue 
contest supernatural fear effects. He may direct their new- color, radiating out from her chest until she looks frozen. 
found courage against a thing that would scare them, and She becomes immune to all effects and expressions of cold, 
grant them one bonus die on actions against that target. all Environmental Tilts except those based on heat, and 

Exceptional Success: The targets achieve exceptional damage that consists only of ice or cold with no other 
success on three successes rather than five when contesting physical component. This Contract affects both mundane 
supernatural fear effects. Their attacks, as directed by the and supernatural cold.
changeling, increase their usual weapon modifiers by one. The changeling’s heart is literally frozen for the dura-

Failure: The Contract fails. tion, making her immune to attacks that specifically target 
Dramatic Failure: Each target gains the Shaken the heart (p. 184) as well. She can’t gain any emotional Con-

Condition. ditions, such as Frightened, Inspired, Steadfast, or Swooned.

Loophole: The changeling has legitimately jump Loophole: The changeling stands barefoot in some-
scared one of the targets this scene. thing cold (snow, or a bucket of ice, for instance) for 

(6 − Mantle) turns before invoking the Contract.
Winter Contracts Ice Queen’s Call (Common)

Winter is the season of sorrow and loss, and the deso-
lation of ice and snow. The changeling summons the ghosts of those frozen 

in winter, to strike an area with cold.
The Dragon Knows (Common) Cost: 1 Glamour

The changeling senses her target’s regrets at a glance, Dice Pool: None
manipulating them to her own ends. She picks up an item Action: Instant
discarded by the target and puts it briefly to her tongue, or Effects: The changeling calls on Hedge ghosts of win-
touches the target and then tastes her fingertips. ter, shards of cold and souls frozen in eternal winterlands, 

Cost: 1 Glamour and spits on the floor. Her spittle immediately freezes, be-
Dice Pool: Wits + Empathy + Mantle vs. Compo- coming the center of a cold spot that grows in size until 

sure + Wyrd an area out to (Mantle x 20) yards/meters suffers the Bliz-
Action: Contested zard Tilt. The changeling herself is immune to the effects. 

Mournful, indecipherable whispers sound through the air 
Roll Results while this Contract is in effect.

Success: The changeling can taste the target’s sorrow Loophole: The character sees, or makes, someone 
and learns his deepest regret, and any Conditions or Tilts shiver.
connected to it. This regret can even be subconscious or 
forgotten. The changeling may replace the subject of the Slipknot Dreams (Common)
regret with one of her choice. The target’s sorrow for the The changeling consumes her target’s regrets, making 
original loss, along with any Conditions or Tilts it engen- him feel better but hollowing him out inside. She pushes 
dered, turns toward the new subject for the scene. him to pin his hopes on her instead of on what’s hurt him 

Exceptional Success: Gain a two-die bonus to any before. The changeling must speak to a target for a scene 
Social roll you make to shatter the target’s hopes for the to invoke this Contract.
Contract’s duration. Cost: 1 Glamour

Failure: The Contract fails. Dice Pool: Manipulation + Empathy + Mantle vs. 
Dramatic Failure: The changeling suffers the De- Resolve + Wyrd

moralized Condition. Action: Contested
Loophole: The character looks into the subject’s eyes Duration: Instant

for at least a few uninterrupted seconds.
Roll Results

Heart of Ice (Common) Success: The changeling soothes her target’s regrets, 
The changeling’s heart freezes, and cold cannot though not the memory of their source. The target still 

harm her. knows his marriage failed, but now believes it was for the 
Cost: 2 Glamour better. The target gains the Swooned Condition with re-

gard to the changeling.

Contracts 159



Exceptional Success: The changeling may also spend as they cross. The ice starts to melt naturally when the 
a point of Willpower to suppress or alter the memory of Contract ends.
the event that caused regret, effectively erasing it from the Exceptional Success: The character may either in-
target’s mind or changing it to have included her in it as a stantly return the frozen liquid to its original form at any 
positive force. This effect is permanent unless reversed by time, or impose the Ice Tilt at any time, which doesn’t 
other supernatural means. affect her.

Failure: The Contract fails. Failure: The Contract fails.
Dramatic Failure: The subject refuses to speak to Dramatic Failure: The character suffers (Mantle) 

the changeling willingly for a full chapter. points of bashing damage due to frostbite.
Loophole: The target accepted a valuable or senti- Loophole: The character melts at least a handful of 

mental gift from the changeling within the scene. ice completely to liquid right before invoking this Contract.

Touch of Winter (Common) Ermine’s Winter Coat (Royal)
The changeling freezes liquid with her touch. In winter, the stoat sheds its brown fur for white, to 
Cost: 1 Glamour blend in with the snow. The courtier hides herself from 
Dice Pool: Intelligence + Science + Mantle the piercing eyes of her enemies the same way, donning 
Action: Instant any white piece of clothing, like a scarf or a coat.

Cost: 1 Glamour
Roll Results Dice Pool: None

Success: The changeling touches the surface of a Action: Instant
body of water with her hand. Frost spreads out from her 
fingertips, f lash freezing an area with a diameter of five Effects: The changeling blends in with whatever she’s 
yards/meters radiating from the changeling. The effect near, becoming difficult to see clearly. She gains +3 to Stealth 
keeps spreading, adding five more yards/meters of diam- rolls and inflicts a −3 on attacks against her. As long as she’s 
eter to the frozen area each turn, as long as the change- in the company of at least a few non-fae beings, she halves her 
ling maintains contact. The frozen surface can support Wyrd rating (rounded down) for purposes of the bonus other 
a number of people equal to the changeling’s Mantle fae beings gain to track or find her, and gains +3 to Clashes 

160 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



of Wills to seem mortal when she strengthens her Mask. This Mantle of Frost (Royal)
Contract immediately ends if she drops her Mask. The changeling wraps herself in Winter’s embrace to 

Loophole: The changeling digs a hole, builds a pillow strike at her enemies.
fort, or creates some other small space, and then hides Cost: 2 Glamour
herself in it while she activates this Contract.

Dice Pool: None
Fallow Fields (Royal) Action: Instant

The changeling drains her target of all positive emotion, Roll Results
leaving only the desolation of winter. She writes the name of Effects: The changeling’s lips turn blue as frost forms in 
a person the target loves onto a piece of paper, then eats it. her hair. Her body radiates cold, sucking all the warmth out 

Cost: 2 Glamour of the air and inflicting an area with a 20-yard/meter diam-
Dice Pool: Manipulation + Empathy + Mantle vs. eter, centered around her, with a flash-freezing version of the 

Resolve + Wyrd Extreme Cold Tilt. People inside the area take an immediate 
Action: Contested −1 die penalty to all rolls, which increases by a cumulative 
Duration: Days equal to the changeling’s Mantle −1 each subsequent turn. Once a target suffers a −5 pen-

alty, he starts taking one point of lethal damage each turn. 
Roll Results The penalty disappears when a person steps outside the aura, 

Success: The target suddenly can’t remember what but returns at full current strength if he returns. The effect 
love feels like. He becomes unable to regain Willpower moves with the changeling, and she herself is immune to it. 
through his Virtue or Vice (or equivalent traits), and Anyone who takes more damage from this Contract than his 
gains the Broken Condition. Stamina gains the Immobilized Tilt, encased in ice.

Exceptional Success: The target feels the loss again at Loophole: The changeling dramatically takes off her 
a time of the changeling’s choosing, within the same story, coat, letting it drop to the floor like a mantle, then destroys it.
regaining the Broken Condition at a spoken word from her. Winter’s Curse (Royal)

Failure: The Contract fails.
The Winter Courtier knows the best way to keep her en-

Dramatic Failure: The changeling gains the Broken emies at bay is to make them stop caring, freezing their hearts 
Condition. until they have no fellow feeling, even for their closest friends. 

Loophole: The name the changeling wrote down is She must touch an opponent to use this Contract (p. 184). 
one of the target’s Touchstones. Huntsmen who bear Fae Titles in place of hearts are immune.

Field of Regret (Royal) Cost: 2 Glamour + 1 Willpower
Dice Pool: Presence + Survival + Mantle vs. Re-

The changeling’s eyes take on a white-blue color as she solve + Wyrd
summons the ghosts of people who died lost in the Hedge on 
a cold winter’s night, to infect living targets with their sorrow. Action: Contested

Cost: 1 Glamour per target + 1 Willpower Roll Results
Dice Pool: Presence + Empathy + Mantle − Resolve Success: The target’s heart is frozen solid. He can’t par-
Action: Instant ticipate in teamwork actions, spend Willpower, gain Will-

power through his Thread or Virtue (or equivalent anchor), 
Roll Results or suffer breaking points. He cares nothing for his allies or his 

Success: The changeling directs the ghosts to any Aspirations, abandoning them immediately. All impressions 
targets she can see. The dead assail the living by passing are Average for purposes of Social maneuvering against him, 
through them, infecting them with unbearable loneliness and can’t be changed; supernatural powers that would do so 
and inflicting the invocation roll’s successes as points of prompt a Clash of Wills. The exception is the changeling her-
lethal damage. Each target also loses one Willpower point. self, who can improve her impression in the usual ways and 

Exceptional Success: The targets lose two Willpow- gains bonus dice equal to her Mantle on Social rolls against 
er points instead. him. If the target would suffer a breaking point during the 

Failure: The Contract fails. Contract’s duration, it catches up to him afterward. 

Dramatic Failure: Sorrow overwhelms the change- Exceptional Success: The changeling may also 
ling, who gains the Disoriented Condition. choose one other character present in the scene, changing 

their impression with the target to Hostile and inflicting 
Loophole: The changeling sings a melancholic song a penalty equal to her Mantle rating on that character’s 

and lets a ghost possess her for at least 10 seconds. Social rolls against the target.

Contracts 161



Failure: The Contract fails. A changeling can never rack up more than nine Debt 
Dramatic Failure: The changeling freezes her own points — subsequent points wash right off her. Instead, 

heart instead, gaining the Stoic Condition. when she would incur a 10th point, she immediately gains 
Loophole: The changeling swallows an ice cube the Hedge Denizen Condition (p. 340).

whole right before invoking this Contract. The changeling can also try to work off Debt by per-
forming tasks for the goblin she’s indebted to. Goblins 

Goblin Contracts have no fixed method to facilitate this, and the change-
ling must negotiate for it.

A changeling isn’t limited to riding the coattails of 
pacts others made; she may enter into new Contracts of her Blessing of Forgetfulness
own. These are called Goblin Contracts and, as the name 
implies, are struck between a changeling and a goblin. The changeling erases a single event from her target’s 
Every goblin bargain is different — the goblin merchant memory, brushing her fingers across her target’s forehead.
might ask for the changeling to retrieve a lost object for Cost: 2 Glamour
him, a strand of the changeling’s hair, or simply a future Dice Pool: Manipulation + Subterfuge + Wyrd vs. 
favor. Whatever he asks, payment should be within the Composure + Wyrd
changeling’s power, though it needn’t be easy to come by. Action: Contested

Goblin Contracts cost 2 Experiences each. Duration: Instant
Goblin Debt Roll Results

Once a changeling purchases a Contract from a Success: The changeling pulls away the memory of 
goblin, it becomes hers and she can use it whenever she a single continuous incident, sticking to her fingers like 
wants. Every time a character successfully invokes a Gob- cobwebs. The memory could be of a conversation, gun-
lin Contract, the Storyteller notes down one point of fight, or another event lasting no longer than one scene. 
Goblin Debt for her. No one knows whether the goblin The target’s mind creates a false, plausible, and harmless 
empowers the Contract directly, or simply brokers it on memory to replace the erased one. The changeling may 
behalf of another entity or the Wyrd itself — possibly make suggestions, such as “you stayed in to watch TV,” 
leaving the changeling indebted to a dangerous partner, but ultimately the target’s own mind does the work.
and making disposing of a goblin to avoid her Debt a risky This Contract removes memories permanently, but 
prospect. Certainly, to the Lost’s knowledge, no such deed conclusive evidence the event did happen can convince 
has ever resulted in a changeling shedding Debt without the target he forgot about it. The Storyteller determines 
unpleasant consequences. what constitutes conclusive evidence.

The Storyteller may spend Goblin Debt points at any Exceptional Success: No amount of mundane persua-
time to: sion or evidence can convince the target the event happened.
•	 Subtract dice from the player’s pool on any roll, at Failure: The Contract fails.

one die per Debt point. The player remains entitled Dramatic Failure: The Contract turns against the 
to a chance die no matter how many Debt points changeling, who forgets the last five minutes.
the Storyteller spends. Loophole: The event caused pain to the target, but 

•	 Spend four Debt points to give the character a non- the changeling herself rendered aid or otherwise showed 
Persistent Condition, or Tilt. This effect should him kindness.
be related to the Goblin Contract, or the charac- Glib Tongue
ter’s creditor. For example, a Contract that lets a 
changeling spy on others, or has the Queen of Eyes The changeling is a snake-oil salesman, a master at 
as its backer, could cause the Blinded Tilt. If a Tilt telling lies.
gained this way causes harm or a significant set- Cost: 1 Glamour
back, the player takes a Beat. Dice Pool: None

•	 Spend eight Debt points to give the character a Action: Instant
Persistent Condition. This effect should also be re- Duration: Instant
lated to the Contract or creditor as above. Effects: The changeling didn’t have to buy deception 
A player may reject the Storyteller’s expenditure, but from a goblin — he owned that already. Rather, he bought 

each time she does so, she gains an additional point of gullibility to wield against his targets. The changeling 
Goblin Debt. perfectly tells one lie to a mortal, who believes him as long 

162 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



as it’s not demonstrably false. Used against a supernatural exists, and it pays off: He wins $25 on a scratch ticket, or 
target, this Contract adds the changeling’s Wyrd as bonus picks the right street of four his quarry might have fled 
dice to the player’s Subterfuge roll, to a maximum of +5. down. This Contract only grants small instances of luck.

Loophole: The changeling tells another target a lie Loophole: The character freely extends this Con-
that harms someone, in the same scene. tract to also benefit an unfriendly rival or enemy. 

Goblin’s Eye Huntsman’s Clarion
The changeling bought an eye from a goblin and Once upon a time, a Huntsman dragged a Playmate 

swallowed it. She can still feel it, sitting in her stomach kicking and screaming into the Hedge. He took pity on 
like a stone, and now she can feel magic. the young woman once there, though, and his empathy 

Cost: 1 Glamour made him lax — she murdered him for his kindness while 
Dice Pool: None he slept. But no amount of murder could solve the Play-

mate’s problem; her Keeper simply sent new hunters to 
Action: Instant bring her back. Finally, desperate, the Playmate tore off 
Effects: The changeling’s kenning (p. 107) may now her Self and scattered the remains of who she was to the 

trigger Clashes of Wills to see through any magical conceal- wind. One of the pieces became this Contract, found and 
ment. Each concealed phenomenon requires its own Clash. handed down through goblins, as the Playmate’s memo-

The player can also ask her Storyteller one of the fol- ries still try to crack the riddle of beating the Wild Hunt.
lowing questions per success rolled about any one super- The changeling must be in the Hedge to invoke this 
natural subject the changeling uncovered via kenning: Contract.
•	 What is the true nature of this magic? (as kenning Cost: 2 Glamour

exceptional success) Dice Pool: Wits + Empathy + Wyrd

•	 What is one weakness, bane, loophole, or catch Action: Instant
this phenomenon possesses? (repeatable with more Roll Results
successes) Success: The changeling automatically knows when-

•	 How do I activate this token or effect? ever a True Fae, a Huntsman, another kind of Arcadian 
denizen (not Hedge denizen), or her own fetch is within a 

•	 How long will this phenomenon last? number of miles equal to her Wyrd, though not where it 
is. Though she must invoke this Contract in the Hedge, 

•	 With which Regalia does this phenomenon most she needn’t stay there for the duration.
closely align? Exceptional Success: The Contract lasts until the 

•	 What is the power level of the phenomenon rela- sun next crosses the horizon.
tive to my Wyrd? Failure: The Contract fails.

Dramatic Failure: The changeling gains the Hunted 
•	 Is there a promise, debt, or oath directly associated Condition, pursued by an agent of the Fae — or perhaps 

with this phenomenon? (e.g. oath-forged tokens, even her own Keeper.
magic performed for a price, Hedge denizens cre-
ated via Goblin Debt, etc.) Loophole: The changeling blindfolds herself for the 

duration of the Contract.
Loophole: The changeling burns an owl’s feather 

and smudges the ashes on his eyelids. Lost Visage

Goblin’s Luck Wily and slippery, the changeling even escapes from 
her enemies’ memories.

Goblins aren’t always content, but they are lucky — Cost: 2 Glamour
and the changeling may use some of this luck. Dice Pool: None

Cost: 1 Glamour Action: Instant
Dice Pool: None Duration: Instant
Action: Instant Effects: The changeling gave a piece of himself to a 
Effects: The changeling bought a wishbone from a goblin in trade, and now he feels more and more pieces 

goblin. They broke it and the goblin got the bigger half, slipping away. Slipping away has its benefits though: The 
but even so he’s been exceptionally lucky since. He can changeling can invoke this Contract immediately when a 
make a random guess when a finite number of possibilities scene ends, to erase himself from any mortal memories of 

Contracts 163



it. They forget what he looked like, and recall his name Effects: The changeling bought the luck of the hap-
not even remotely right. This Contract even works on su- less from a goblin. Her next mundane action that is nei-
pernatural targets, if the changeling’s player beats them ther resisted nor contested gains the rote quality — in-
in a Clash of Wills. The True Fae and the Huntsmen are cluding single rolls within extended actions (though this 
immune to this Contract. doesn’t negate the time involved).

Loophole: The changeling leaves one of his posses- Loophole: The changeling has no Skill dots to con-
sions at the scene. This needn’t be an identifying item, but tribute to the attempted task.
it should be fairly unique — this month’s Cosmo doesn’t 
work, but his jacket does. Wayward Guide

Mantle Mask The changeling leads his targets astray.
Cost: 1 Glamour per target

Courts are the glue of changeling society, but every Dice Pool: None
haven has its infiltrators and traitors.

Action: Instant
Cost: 1 Glamour

Duration: Instant or scene; see below
Dice Pool: None

Effects: The changeling bought a bad sense of direc-
Action: Instant tion from a goblin. He can use it to alter signs in his path, 
Effects: The changeling bought a piece of treachery inflicting the Lost Condition on one mortal per Glamour 

from a goblin. She can dim her own Mantle and assume point spent. If he targets himself, supernatural creatures 
another court’s up to the rating of her true Mantle, or tracking him must beat his player in a Clash of Wills or lose 
appear to have no Mantle at all. These changes are only the scent for the scene.
cosmetic, making the changeling appear as a member of Loophole: The changeling gets herself confused as 
another court, or courtless. well, gaining the Confused Condition.

Loophole: The changeling decorates her skin with 
symbols of the court whose Mantle she wants to mimic, The Crown of 
right before invoking this Contract. Seasons
Sight of Truth and Lies A Crown is a gift: a token of affection from the court’s 

Cloaking herself in the mantle of truth, the change- patron to its queen, whether her kin elected her, she defeat-
ling sorts veracity from deception. ed the old sovereign, or she showed great bravery or wisdom. 

Cost: 1 Glamour The Crown is a physical object, though born from Glamour 
Dice Pool: None and bound to the queen at all times. She can choose to 

subsume and hide it in her mien, or give it to someone else 
Action: Instant to use. It can’t be taken from her by force or guile, and she 
Effects: The changeling purchased the burden of truth always knows exactly where it is and who currently wears it. 

from a goblin. He recognizes any mundane lie spoken in Once a day, the queen can call a gifted Crown back to her 
his presence, though the Contract does not reveal what the side: Spring rulers may do so at dawn, Summer queens at 
truth is. He can’t tell lies himself, but is under no compul- high noon, Autumn sovereigns at dusk, and Winter rulers 
sion to offer the truth either. If he does lie, the Contract at midnight. A monarch (and only a monarch) can turn a 
ends. Supernatural deceptions prompt a Clash of Wills. Crown into an oath-forged token (p. 224), granting it even 

For this Contract, what matters is whether or not the more power, but doing so cuts it loose from her mien some-
person saying the statement believes it is true. what, requiring a point of Glamour and a contested Wyrd 

Loophole: The changeling uses this Contract at an of- + Mantle roll to reclaim it from another bearer.
ficial occasion — anything from a hearing over which the At the changing of the seasons, the old ruler ab-
Autumn Queen presides to a mundane business meeting. dicates power while the new one claims it. Most courts 

prefer to hold elaborate ceremonies as a way to uphold 
Uncanny their Bargains; see Chapter 1 for more on how each court 

The changeling borrows a little goblin luck to suc- takes power. These ceremonies also reinforce any oaths 
ceed at her next task. attendees swore when they joined their court, granting 

each changeling present one point of Glamour.
Cost: 2 Glamour

When a changeling loses her reigning position, the 
Dice Pool: None Crown fades, although some extraordinarily popular rulers 
Action: Reflexive or those whose seasonal Bargains are sorely needed in the 
Duration: One instant action, or extended action roll fight against the Fae find that their Crown sticks around 

164 Chapter Three: Words of Wonder



even when they’re not in power, causing strife and intrigue do this a number of times per chapter equal to his Mantle, 
galore. No changeling has yet made this happen on pur- but against an individual enemy only once per chapter.
pose, but sometimes the seasons have their own ideas.

In addition to those benefits, each Crown grants a bless- Harvest of Whispers 
ing. If the sovereign has currently granted the Crown to an- (Autumn)
other to use, that character may invoke the blessing as he wills. Red and yellow leaves crown the queen, fanning out 

Blessing of the behind her like great wings. Once per chapter, she re-
gains two points of Glamour for each important secret 

Green (Spring) she has uncovered this chapter, up to a number of revela-
The Crown wreathes around the queen’s head, cas- tions equal to her Mantle rating. She may only spend this 

cading down her shoulders to a resplendent robe of young Glamour on Contracts, tokens, oneiromancy, or crossing 
blooms. She may spend a point of Willpower to let one Lost into the Hedge. Any unspent Glamour she gained this 
(including herself) add her Mantle rating as bonus success- way is lost when the chapter ends.
es on a Glamour harvesting roll. The queen can do this a 
number of times per chapter equal to her Mantle, but she Feast of Ashes 
can bless each individual subject only once per chapter. (Winter)
Challenge of the Frozen ashes make the Crown, flowing down into a 

shimmering mantle of gray and silver. Once per chapter, 
Black Spear (Summer) the king can convert points of Glamour into points of 

Mahogany branches and emerald leaves braid togeth- Willpower, up to a maximum number of points equal to 
er in the Crown, wrapping down into a magnificent breast- his Mantle rating. This allows his Willpower-point total 
plate. By spending a point of Glamour, the king receives a to surpass his normal maximum, but any excess points 
bonus to his Initiative equal to his Mantle rating and can’t vanish at the end of the chapter. He also gains the Stead-
be surprised in a one-on-one fight, for the scene. He can fast Condition when he calls on this power.

The Crown of Seasons 165



Part IV

Wendy
I don’t run anymore.
It used to calm my nerves. Gave me a chance to yell in my head all the things I wasn’t going to say 

to my actual boss. I rehearsed long rants about respect and cowardice and manifesting good in the world. 
(I don’t even remember when I gave up asking to be called something other than ‘Miss’ or ‘guys.’) So I 
ate my words and made nice and asked exactly once to change managers. And got fired at my next perfor-
mance review — for “being difficult” and “politicizing everything.” My best work friend suggested I had 
brought it on myself by complaining on work chat about how I couldn’t take lunar new year off. Since we 
“were totally about to crunch, you know.” I did know.

I kept running for a while after that. At first, it just seemed like it might be good practice. Give my 
days some structure. Help me keep my mind focused while I looked for new jobs. While I thought about 
changing industries. Besides, every time I ran that way the path seemed to get a little more remote and 
overgrown. Each time I ran a little farther, I saw something new. Interviewers asked a lot about my poli-
tics, and offers dried up after they contacted former employers. So I had some time on my hands. Doing 
favors for nonprofits I worked for in college kept me from digging too deep into my savings, but there’s 
only so much your social network can do for you. I was running a couple of hours a day at that point. 

I’d been out all morning when I found them. Just 20 minutes farther than yesterday, there was a little 
shadowy lake. A pond, really, maybe no more than 100 feet across, but with water so dark it seemed to 
go down forever. And it was full of skeletons. Thousands of delicate bones, washing up with the little 
waves that seemed to come from somewhere under the surface, forming little islands that crested the water, 
gathering more as the current drifted fragments to them. Some old and mossy, some new — still white 
and streaked with pink. I don’t know why I didn’t just run away. I hadn’t been tired when I stopped, just 
curious. But as I watched the bones churn in the water, I didn’t run. Which I guess is how I heard them. 
Too soft for me to have made them out over my own heavy breathing otherwise. A nest of baby swans, 
crying the way you do when you’re too tired to heave out another sob, but the pain hasn’t stopped. When 
the salt just burns your eyes because there’s no water left to clear it out. When you’ve lost your voice from 
screaming. Not that I would know.

I still don’t know much about birds, but at the time all I knew was that they didn’t seem like the same 
age. One was almost grown, but one was barely hatched. Do birds even know their younger siblings? The 
eldest was…watching them, I guess, but didn’t try to chase me away. I mean, I’ve tried to feed swans at 
parks before. I know how they can be about hatchlings. This one just looked tired. Covered the younger 
ones with its wing and looked…sad? Can birds look sad? I walked a little closer. Sad, and maybe scared. 
A quiet hiss, and a wince as it tried to move. Oh, its wing was broken. No wonder it couldn’t fight me. I 
know you’re not supposed to bother wounded animals. But I couldn’t just leave them. Not in a nest made 
of thin, hollow bones.

“Hi,” I said, even though it seemed silly to talk to a swan. But I needed to say something as I crept 
closer, to try to reassure it that I wasn’t going to hurt them.



“Hi,” the biggest one whispered back. “Are you going to eat us now?”
The strangest thing was that it didn’t seem strange. I just thought, Oh, of course this swan can talk, 

and then kept right on. “No, I promise.” It sighed, as though it didn’t believe me.
I tried to smile, but at the same time I stepped on a bone and crushed it. Bird bones crush, I thought 

absent-mindedly. Bird bones crush, I thought urgently. “Um. Is it okay if I take you somewhere else? I’m 
starting to feel really weird about this place.”

Can birds roll their eyes? “Starting to? How did you even get here, lady?”
“I was running, and don’t sass me.”
And it flinched. “I’m sorry ma’am. It was my mistake, please don’t hurt them.” The broken wing 

extended a little further over the babies.
“Oh, sweetie. I didn’t mean to scare you. It’s just what my mother said to me when I talked back. I 

wasn’t thinking.” It settled back a little, still defensive, still watchful. “Do you have a name? It seems rude 
to pick you up if I don’t know your name.”

I’d never seen a swan shed tears before. “We don’t know them anymore. I think she ate them.”
“She ate them?” And I looked toward the lake. 
“No, not the creature in the water. Whatever’s there doesn’t come out during the day. I felt it sniffing 

my feathers last night, but it left us be. Maybe it’s waiting for something better than some scrawny bird 
kids.”

“Well, now I definitely want to get out of here. Can I pick you up…Peter?”
“Peter? Okay. But please don’t leave the little ones behind.”
“I won’t. Here, let me get my arms around your wing.” And then he turned into a boy in my arms. 

I only just managed to not drop him on the babies below us. We both screamed, and the water trembled. 
“Okay. Okay. Now you’re a boy somehow and we can talk about this when we are all far away from the 
bone water. Are they going to get turned into kids too? Because I go to the gym, but I don’t think I can 
carry five teenagers.”

He…Peter looked pale and scared and said, “Can you fix us? Could you name all of us?”
“Okay, yes, fine, I will name everyone once we are away. Will they stay birds if I don’t name them 

yet?”
“Maybe if you don’t touch their skin?”
“Okay, good enough.” I took off my jacket and wrapped it around the four smaller birds, who 

shrieked, high-pitched and scared, until Peter touched them all and chirped gently to them.
The water shivered and flexed, like something taking off a coat and shaking it. The air filled with a 

deep thrum, rattling my teeth and my nerves. 
So with a coat full of birds and a naked teenager riding piggyback, I ran as fast as I could back down 

the path I had taken and didn’t look back. Bones and rock to dirt to gravel to pavement to wood to tile to 
a bathtub full of children.






But when the fairy sang, the whole world listened to him. Stephen felt clouds pause in their 
passing; he felt sleeping hills shift and murmur; he felt cold mists dance. He understood for the first 
time that the world is not dumb at all, but merely waiting for someone to speak to it in a language it 

understands. In the fairy’s song the earth recognized the names by which it called itself.
Susanna Clarke, Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell

This chapter contains the basic rules for playing Social. If a game rule refers to a “Social roll,” or a “Mental 
Changeling: The Lost. More information, including op- action,” that means an action that uses the appropriate 
tional systems and examples of play, can be found in the Attribute category.
Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook.

Mental Attributes
Traits Mental Attributes reflect your character’s acuity, in-

In addition to the supernatural traits of the Lost, tellect, and strength of mind. 
Chronicles of Darkness characters have mundane traits 
common to mortals and monsters alike. Attributes are Intelligence 
raw potential, Skills are trained abilities, and Skill Spe- Intelligence is your character’s raw knowledge, mem-
cialties are specific areas of training in which a character ory, and capacity for solving difficult problems. This may 
excels. Willpower is the extra effort a character can bring be book smarts, or a wealth of trivia. 
to bear in a stressful or dangerous situation, when success Attribute Tasks: Memorizing (Intelligence + Compo-
is crucial or hangs by a thread. Some supernatural powers sure, instant action)
also use Willpower.

Finally, a mortal (but not a changeling) possesses a per- Wits
sonal Virtue and Vice from which he can draw strength and Wits represents your character’s ability to think 
refill his Willpower, much the same way a changeling derives quickly and improvise solutions. It reflects your charac-
Willpower from her Needle, Thread, and Touchstones. ter’s perception, and ability to pick up on details. 

Attributes Attribute Tasks: Perception (Wits + Composure, re-
flexive action)

Attributes represent essential traits that every char-
acter possesses by default. These serve as the foundation Resolve
to most rolls in Changeling: The Lost. The nine Attri- Resolve is your character’s determination, patience, 
butes are split into three categories; Mental, Physical, and and sense of commitment. It allows your character to 

Traits 169



concentrate in the face of distraction and danger, or con- Attribute Tasks: Meditation (Resolve + Composure, 
tinue doing something in spite of insurmountable odds. extended action)

Attribute Tasks: Resisting coercion (Resolve + Stam-
ina, reflexive action) Skills

Whereas Attributes represent innate ability, Skills re-
Physical Attributes flect behaviors learned and honed over a lifetime. These 

Physical Attributes reflect your character’s bodily fit- are things that could be practiced or learned from a book. 
ness and acumen. Similarly to Attributes, Skills are divided into Mental, 

Physical, and Social categories. 
Strength Skills do not receive free dots at character creation. 

Strength is your character’s muscular definition and Skills without dots are deficient or barely capable. Skills 
capacity to deliver force. It affects many physical tasks, with a single dot reflect a cursory training. Two dots is suf-
including most actions in a fight. ficient for professional use. Three is a high level of com-

Attribute Tasks: Breaking a barrier (Strength + Stam- petency. Four is outstanding, and five is absolute mastery 
ina, instant action), Lifting objects (Strength + Stamina, of the discipline. When creating your character, prioritize 
instant action) categories. The primary category receives 11 dots, the sec-

ondary receives seven, the tertiary four. 
Dexterity Sample actions are listed for each Skill; these lists are just 

Dexterity is your character’s speed, agility, and coor- common actions, and should not be taken as comprehensive 
dination. It provides balance, reactions, and aim. guides to where Skills can apply. We also suggest dice pools, 

but it’s important to look at the context of the scene, and 
Attribute Tasks: Keeping balance (Dexterity + Com- apply the best Attribute + Skill combination for the events 

posure, reflexive action) at hand. Also remember that equipment and environmen-
Stamina tal modifiers can shift a dice pool. We’ve listed some sample 

equipment and factors that could enhance Skill usage.
Stamina is your character’s general health and sturdi-

ness. It determines how much punishment your charac- Using a Skill with no dots incurs a penalty. For Physi-
ter’s body can handle before it gives up. cal and Social Skills, it levies a −1 die penalty to the roll. 

For a Mental Skill, it’s a −3 die penalty. 
Attribute Tasks: Staying awake (Stamina + Resolve, 

instant action) Mental Skills
Social Attributes Mental Skills are largely learned, as opposed to prac-

ticed. They reflect knowledge and procedure, lore and 
Social Attributes reflect your character’s ability to understanding. 

deal with others. 
Academics

Presence
Academics is a broad Skill representing your character’s 

Presence is your character’s assertiveness, gravitas, higher education and knowledge of the arts and humanities. 
and raw appeal. It gives your character a strong bearing It covers language, history, law, economics, and related fields.
that changes moods and minds. 

Sample actions: Recall trivia (Intelligence + Academ-
Attribute Tasks: Good first impressions (Presence + ics, instant action), Research (Intelligence + Academics, 

Composure, instant action) extended action), Translation (Intelligence + Academics, 
Manipulation extended action)

Sample contacts: Rare Book Dealer, Law Professor, 
Manipulation is your character’s ability to make oth- Head Librarian

ers cooperate. It’s how smoothly she speaks, and how 
much people can read into her intentions. Suggested equipment: Internet access (+1), Library (+1 

to +3), Professional consultant (+2)
Attribute Tasks: Poker face (Manipulation + Com-

posure) Specialties: Anthropology, Art History, English, His-
tory, Law, Literature, Religion, Research, Translation

Composure Computer
Composure is your character’s poise and grace under 

fire. It’s his dignity, and ability to remain unfazed when Computer is your character’s advanced ability with com-
harrowed. puting. While most characters in Chronicles of Darkness 

170 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



are expected to know the basics, the Computer Skill allows Medicine
your character to program computers, to crack into systems, Medicine reflects your character’s knowledge of the 
to diagnose major problems, and to investigate data. This human body, and of how to bring it to and keep it in work-
Skill reflects advanced techniques and tricks; almost ev- ing order. Characters with Medicine can make efforts to 
eryone can operate a computer for email and basic internet stem life-threatening wounds and illnesses.
searches.

Sample actions: Diagnosis (Wits + Medicine, instant 
Sample actions: Hacking a system (Intelligence + action), Treating wounds (Intelligence + Medicine, ex-

Computer, extended action, contested if against a secu- tended action)
rity administrator or other hacker), Internet search (Wits 
+ Computer, instant action), Programming (Intelligence Sample contacts: Bio-Tech Company Researcher, 
+ Computer, extended action) Chronic Patient, EMT

Sample contacts: AI Researcher, Hardcore Computer Suggested equipment: Medical tools (+1 to +3), 
Gamer, White-Hat Hacker Trained assistance (+1), Well-stocked facilities (+2)

Suggested equipment: Computer system (+0 to +3, by Specialties: First Aid, Pathology, Pharmaceuticals, 
performance), Custom software (+2), Passwords (+2) Physical Therapy, Surgery

Specialties: Data Retrieval, Graphics, Hacking, Inter- Occult
net, Programming, Security, Social Media

The Occult Skill is your character’s knowledge of 
Crafts things hidden in the dark, legends, and lore. While the 

supernatural is unpredictable and often unique, the Oc-
Crafts reflects your character’s knack with creating cult Skill allows your character to pick out facts from ru-

and repairing things. From creating works of art to fixing mor.
an automobile, Crafts is the Skill to use.

Sample actions: Identify the sliver of truth (Wits + 
Sample actions: Appraisal (Wits + Crafts, instant ac- Occult, instant action), Relate two similar myths (Intel-

tion), Counterfeit item (Intelligence + Crafts, instant ac- ligence + Occult, instant or extended action)
tion), Create art (Intelligence + Crafts, instant action), 
Repair item (Wits + Crafts, instant action) Sample contacts: Anthropology Professor, Neo-Pagan 

Author, Weird Hermit Down the Street
Sample contacts: Automotive Engineer, Makerspace 

Enthusiast, Police Sketch Artist Suggested equipment: Well-stocked library (+2)

Suggested equipment: Point of reference (+1), Quality Specialties: Casting Lots, Divination, Ghosts, Hedge 
materials (+2), Tools (+1 to +3, depending on utility and Lore, Phrenology, Superstition, Witchcraft
specialty), Well-equipped workplace (+2) Politics

Specialties: Automotive, Cosmetics, Fashion, Forg-
ing, Graffiti, Jury Rigging, Painting, Perfumery, Repair, Politics reflects a general knowledge of political struc-
Sculpting tures and methodologies, but more practically shows your 

character’s ability to navigate those systems and make 
Investigation them work the way she intends. With Politics, she knows 

the right person to ask to get something done.
Investigation is your character’s skill with solving 

mysteries and putting together puzzles. It reflects the abil- Sample actions: Cut red tape (Manipulation + Poli-
ity to draw conclusions, to find meaning out of confusion, tics, extended action), Identify authority (Wits + Politics, 
and to use lateral thinking to find information where oth- instant action), Sully reputations (Manipulation + Poli-
ers could not. tics, extended action)

Sample actions: Examining a crime scene (Wits + Sample contacts:  Personal Assistant to the Governor, 
Investigation, extended action), Solving riddles (Intelli- Political Blogger, Union Leader
gence + Investigation, instant or extended action) Suggested equipment: Official position (+1 to +5, by 

Sample contacts: Conspiracy Buff, Medical Examiner, Status)
Private Investigator Specialties: Bureaucracy, Church, Court Intrigue, 

Suggested equipment: Forensic kit (+1), Unrestricted Democratic, Freehold, Local, Organized Crime, Scandals
access (+2), Reference library (+2) Science

Specialties: Autopsy, Body Language, Crime Scenes, 
Cryptography, Lab Work, Riddles Science is your character’s knowledge and under-

standing of the physical and natural sciences, such as bi-
ology, chemistry, geology, meteorology, and physics.

Traits 171



Sample actions: Assess variables (Intelligence + Sci- Sample actions: Impressive maneuvering (Dexterity + 
ence, instant or extended action), Formulate solution (In- Drive, instant action), Pursuit (Dexterity + Drive, con-
telligence + Science, extended action) tested action), Tailing (Wits + Drive, contested action)

Sample contacts: Experimental Physicist, Geology Sample contacts: Bush Pilot, Mechanic, Street Racer
Professor, Mad Inventor Suggested equipment: Performance vehicle (+1 to +3)

Suggested equipment: Reference library (+1 to +3), Specialties: Defensive Driving, Evasion, Off-Road 
Well-stocked laboratory (+2) Driving, Motorcycles, Pursuit, Stunts

Specialties: Physics, Neuroscience, Virology, Alchemy, 
Genetics, Hematology Firearms

Physical Skills Firearms reflects your character’s ability to identify, 
maintain, and otherwise use guns. This Skill covers ev-

Physical Skills are those practiced, trained, and erything from small pistols, to shotguns, to assault rifles, 
learned through action. and anything else related. 

Sample actions: Firefights (see p. 184 for more on how 
Athletics firearms violence works)

Athletics reflects a broad category of physical train- Sample contacts: Gun store owner, Local law enforce-
ing and ability. It covers sports, and basic physical tasks ment, Sharpshooter
such as running, jumping, dodging threats, and climbing. Suggested equipment: See p. 324 for a full list of fire-
It also determines a character’s ability with thrown weap- arms
ons.

Specialties: Handguns, Rifles, Shotguns, Trick Shots
Sample actions: Acrobatics (Dexterity + Athletics, 

instant action), Climbing (Strength + Athletics, extend- Larceny
ed action), Foot chase (Stamina + Athletics, contested 
action), Jumping (Strength + Athletics, instant action, Larceny covers intrusion, lockpicking, theft, pick-
one foot vertically per success) pocketing, and other (generally considered) criminal 

activities. This Skill is typically learned on the streets, 
Sample contacts: Parkour Enthusiast, Physical Thera- outside of formal methods. However, stage magicians and 

pist, Running Club Buddy other entertainers learn these skills as part of their rep-
Suggested equipment: Athletic shoes (+1), Rope (+1) ertoire.
Specialties: Acrobatics, Archery, Climbing, Jumping, Sample actions: Bypass security systems (Dexterity 

Parkour, Swimming, Throwing + Larceny, extended action), Lockpicking (Dexterity + 
Larceny, extended action), Pickpocketing (Dexterity + 

Brawl Larceny, contested action)
Brawl reflects your character’s ability to tussle and Sample contacts: Shady Pawn Shop Owner, Parole Of-

fight without weapons. This includes old-fashioned bar ficer, Three-Card Monte Dealer.
brawls as well as complex martial arts. Suggested equipment: Crowbar (+1), Crowded area 

Sample actions: Breaking boards (Strength + Brawl, (+2), Lockpicks (+2), Partner in crime (+1)
instant action), Hand-to-hand fighting (covered in the Specialties: Breaking and Entering, Concealment, 
Violence section, p. 184) Lockpicking, Pickpocketing, Safecracking, Security Sys-

Sample contacts: Club Bouncer, Self-Defense Teacher, tems, Sleight of Hand
Sparring Partner

Suggested equipment: Brass knuckles (+1) Stealth
Specialties: Boxing, Dirty Fighting, Grappling, Mar- The Stealth Skill reflects your character’s ability to 

tial Arts, Threats, Throws move unnoticed and unheard, or to blend into a crowd. 
Every character approaches Stealth differently; some use 

Drive distraction, some disguise, some are just hard to keep an 
Drive is the skill to control and maneuver automobiles, eye on. 

motorcycles, boats, and even airplanes. A character can Sample actions: Losing a tail (Wits + Stealth, con-
drive a car without Drive dots; the Skill relates to moments tested action), Shadowing (Dexterity + Stealth, contest-
of high stress, such as a high-speed chase or trying to elude ed action)
a tail. It’s assumed that most modern characters have a basic Sample contacts: Bow Hunter, Burglar, Lookout from 
ability to drive. As well, Drive can reflect your character’s a Former Job
skill with horseback riding, if appropriate to her history.

172 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Suggested equipment: Binoculars (+1), Dark clothing helps discern moods, or read deceptive behavior in discus-
(+1), Smokescreen (+2), Spotters (+1) sion. It is not inherently sympathetic; one can understand 

Specialties: Camouflage, Crowds, In Plain Sight, Ru- another’s positions without agreeing with them.
ral, Shadowing, Stakeout, Staying Motionless Sample actions: Finding someone’s pain (Wits + Em-

pathy, contested action), Sense deception (Wits + Empa-
Survival thy, contested action), Soothing nerves (Manipulation + 

Survival represents your character’s ability to “live off Empathy, instant action)
the land.” This means finding shelter, finding food, and Sample contacts: Shoulder to Cry On, Police Profiler, 
otherwise procuring the necessities for existence. This Psych Student
could be in a rural or urban environment. Suggested equipment: Muted clothing (+1), Relaxing 

Sample actions: Foraging (Wits + Survival, extended environment (+2)
action), Hunting (for animals, Wits + Survival, extended Specialties: Calming, Emotion, Hedge Shaping, Lies, 
action) Motives, Oneiromancy, Personalities

Sample contacts: Homeless Person, Off-the-grid Sur-
vivalist, Scout Master Expression

Suggested equipment: Survival guide (+1), Survival The Expression Skill reflects your character’s ability to 
knife (+1) communicate. This Skill covers written and spoken forms of 

Specialties: Foraging, Hunting, Navigation, Shelter, communication, journalism, acting, music, and dance.
Weather Sample actions: Composing (Intelligence + Expres-

sion, extended action), Performance (Presence + Expres-
Weaponry sion, instant action)

Weaponry is the ability to fight with hand-to-hand Sample contacts: Investigative Journalist, Political 
weapons, from swords, to knives, to baseball bats, to Speech Writer, Reclusive Poet
chainsaws. If the intent is to strike another and harm Suggested equipment: Quality instrument (+1 to +3)
him, Weaponry is the Skill.

Specialties: Dance, Drama, Hedge Shaping, Journalism, 
Sample actions: Attacking another (see p. 184 for Musical Instrument, Performance Art, Singing, Speeches

more on Weaponry fighting)
Sample contacts: Fencing Instructor, Gang Member, Intimidation

Western Martial Arts Enthusiast Intimidation reflects your character’s ability to influ-
Suggested equipment: See p. 323 for a full list of weapons ence others’ behavior through threats and fear. It could 
Specialties: Chains, Clubs, Improvised Weapons, mean direct physical threats, interrogation, or veiled im-

Spears, Swords plications of things to come.
Sample actions: Interrogation (Wits + Intimidation, 

Social Skills contested action), Stare down (Presence + Intimidation, 
contested action)

Animal Ken Sample contacts: Barroom Tough Guy, High-Powered 
Animal Ken reflects your character’s ability to train Executive, Police Interrogator

and understand animals. With Animal Ken, your charac- Suggested equipment: Fearsome tools (+2), Gang col-
ter can charm beasts or even rile them to violence, under ors (+2), Isolated room (+1)
the right circumstances. Specialties: Direct Threats, Interrogation, Stare 

Sample actions: Animal training (Manipulation + Down, Torture, Veiled Threats
Animal Ken, extended action), Cowing an animal (Pres-
ence + Animal Ken, contested action) Persuasion

Sample contacts: Cat Lady, Rodeo Horse Trainer, Zoo Persuasion is your character’s ability to change minds 
Veterinarian and influence behaviors through logic, fast-talking, or ap-

Suggested equipment: Treats (+1), Whip (+1) pealing to desire. It relies on the force of your character’s 
Specialties: Canines, Felines, Reptiles, Calming, Training personality to sway the listener.

Sample actions: Fast-talk (Manipulation + Persua-
Empathy sion, extended action), Firebranding (Presence + Persua-

Empathy represents your character’s ability to read sion, instant action), Seduction (Manipulation + Persua-
and understand others’ feelings and motivations. This sion, extended action)

Traits 173



Sample contacts: Car Salesman, Speech Coach, Trial Suggested equipment: Costume supplies (+2), Fake ID 
Lawyer (+1), 

Suggested equipment: Designer clothing (+1 to +3), Specialties: Detecting Lies, Doublespeak, Hiding 
Reputation (+2) Emotion, Little White Lies, Misdirection

Specialties: Confidence Scam, Fast-Talking, Inspiring, 
Sales Pitch, Seduction, Sermon Skill Specialties

In addition to Skills, your character possesses Skill 
Socialize Specialties. These are refinements of the broader Skills. 

Socialize reflects your character’s ability to present These should be narrower than the main Skill, and help 
herself well and interact with groups of people (or fae). to define your character’s particular expertise. For ex-
It reflects proper (and setting-appropriate) etiquette, cus- ample, your character might have three dots in Firearms, 
toms, sensitivity, and warmth. A character with a high but a Specialty in Rifles. He’s capable with all guns, but 
Socialize is the life of the party. particularly good with rifles. If you look to the Skill de-

Sample actions: Carousing (Manipulation + Social- scriptions, you’ll see example Specialties. The Storyteller 
ize, instant action), Fitting in (Wits + Socialize, instant is the ultimate arbiter of what constitutes a Specialty and 
action), Getting attention (Presence + Socialize, instant what doesn’t; Specialties that are too broad or too narrow 
action) can hurt the story or never come into play. 

Sample contacts: Diplomat, Drinking Buddy, Society If a Specialty applies to your roll, add a die. Multiple 
Matron Specialties may apply to a single roll, within reason. If you 

find yourself going to great lengths to justify a Specialty, it 
Suggested equipment: Drugs (+1), Knowing people probably shouldn’t apply. 

(+1), Money (+1 to +5)
Skill Specialties let you flesh out your character and 

Specialties: Bar Hopping, Church Lock-in, Dress offer a mechanical benefit. When creating your character, 
Balls, Formal Freehold Ceremonies, Frat Parties, Political let Specialty choice guide his development. For example, 
Fundraisers, The Club there’s a huge difference between a character with Brawl 
Streetwise 4 (Bar Fights) and Brawl 4 (Aikido). 

The Streetwise Skill is your character’s knowledge of Virtues and Vices
life on the streets. It tells her how to navigate the city, 
how to get information from unlikely sources, and where Virtue and Vice are Anchor traits mortal characters 
she’ll be (relatively) safe. If she wants to get something on possess instead of Needle and Thread. Virtue is a point 
the black market, Streetwise is how. of strength and integrity in the character’s life, Vice is a 

place of weakness. This is just a brief touch on the topic; 
Sample actions: Finding a shortcut (Wits + Street- for more, look to The Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook.

wise, instant action), Working the black market (Manipu-
lation + Streetwise, instant action) When choosing Virtues and Vices, use the following 

guidelines: 
Sample contacts: Bartender in a Rough Part of Town, 

Drug Dealer, Undercover Cop •	 Both should be adjectives that describe dominant 
Suggested equipment: Burner phone (+1), Known personality traits. Don’t use physical descriptions. 

nickname (+2), Valuable contraband (+1 to +3) •	 Traits that describe existing Advantages, Attri-
Specialties: Black Market, Gangs, Goblin Markets, butes, or Skills similarly do not apply. For example, 

Navigation, Rumors, Undercover “Strong,” or “Composed,” would not work as a Vir-
tue. 

Subterfuge
Subterfuge is the ability to deceive. With Subterfuge, •	 Virtue should be a point of self-confidence and self-

your character can lie convincingly, project hidden mes- actualization, but something easy and tempting to 
sages in what she says, hide motivations, and notice de- ignore. It’s a higher calling, if she chooses to walk 
ception in others. the talk. 

Sample actions: Disguise (Wits + Subterfuge, instant •	 Vice should contrast Virtue as a short-term, quick 
action), Lying (Manipulation + Subterfuge, contested ac- source of distraction from the world. It should be a 
tion) hiding place when you’re weak. 

Sample contacts: Con Artist, Crooked Politician, Out-
of-work Actor •	 Virtue and Vice must be different. The same adjec-

tive could work as both a Virtue and Vice in some 

174 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



cases, but a single character must have two differ-
ent ones. 
Whenever a mortal character acts in accordance Circumstance  

with her Vice, she regains one spent Willpower. When and Equipment
she takes meaningful actions in accordance to her Vir- Sometimes, fortune favors your character, 
tue, she regains all spent Willpower. She can only recover or they’re packing the right tools for the job. 
Willpower from her Vice once per scene, and her Virtue Other times, the odds are stacked against you 
twice per chapter. or you don’t have the right gear at all. The 

Storyteller should weigh how circumstances 
Speed or equipment affect a character’s chance of 

Your character’s Speed is the number of yards or me- success and assign an appropriate modifier. 
A slight advantage — picking an old and 

ters she can travel in a single turn. This trait is a combina- damaged lock — might be worth a bonus die, 
tion of her Strength, Dexterity, and a species factor that while a stressful situation — trying to pick a 
reflects her age, physical configuration, Size, and other lock while people are shooting at you — might 
considerations. subtract three dice from your pool. 

Other species, such as horses and cheetahs, have 
physical configurations that lend themselves to high 
travel rates.

Circumstantial factors, appropriate equipment (or 
Factor Species lack thereof), or opposition from another character can 
1 Turtle add or subtract dice from the total; see below.
3 Human toddler The total number of dice you roll is called your dice pool.

5 Human adult The Storyteller determines the appropriate dice pool 
based on what you’re trying to do and how you’re trying to do 

8 Wolf it, using the descriptions of the various traits involved. In the 
10 Caribou above example, if you explained to the Storyteller that you 
12 Horse weren’t trying to lie your way past the bouncer but schmooze 

her into liking you enough to let you in, the Storyteller might 
15 Cheetah

revise the dice pool to Manipulation + Socialize. 

Rolling Dice Most of the actions described in this book will tell you 
what the dice pool should be, but it’s fine to come up with 

When your character is trying to accomplish some- dice pools for other actions on an ad hoc basis. Just try to 
thing and the outcome is in doubt, you roll a number of be fair and consistent — if you decide bashing down a door 
10-sided dice. The result of that roll determines whether is Strength + Stamina in one session, it should always be 
your character succeeds and accomplishes their goal, or Strength + Stamina unless the situation radically changes.
whether they fail and don’t do what they set out to. Failure 
doesn’t mean “nothing happens,” just that your character Dice Rolling Basics
doesn’t get what they want and complications are headed •	 Building a Pool: Unless otherwise noted, a dice 
their way. pool is always Attribute + different Attribute or 

You might also score an exceptional success or suffer a Attribute + Skill.
dramatic failure (p. 176).

•	 Modifiers: Bonuses add the indicated number of 
Dice Pool dice; penalties remove them. Unless otherwise 

specified, modifiers never exceed +/−5. Add all 
The number of dice you roll depends on the action bonuses before subtracting penalties.

your character is taking. Most of the time, it’s the value 
of one of your Attributes plus one of your Skills, or the •	 Successes: Any die showing 8, 9, or 10 counts as a 
value of two different Attributes put together; for exam- success.
ple, fast-talking your way past a bouncer might be a roll 
of Manipulation + Subterfuge, which means you roll a •	 10-again: Any die that shows a 10 is counted as 
number of dice equal to your Manipulation rating plus a success, then rerolled. Rerolled dice count suc-
your Subterfuge rating. (Sometimes you’ll roll a different cesses as normal. Continue counting successes and 
pool, but those are special cases that will be called out rerolling as long as you keep rolling 10s.
when needed.)

Rolling Dice 175



The Chance Die •	 8-Again: Reroll dice that show 8, 9, or 10 — any 
If penalties ever reduce your dice pool to 0 or fewer successful die — and keep rerolling as long as your 

dice, roll a single die anyway. This single die is called a dice show successes. Certain Conditions, Merits, or 
chance die, and it follows slightly different rules. other special circumstances may award you 8-again 

on specific kinds of rolls. If you gain 8-again on a 
Chance Die Basics roll that already had that quality, it may become a 

•	 Success: A chance die showing a 10 counts as a rote action, at the Storyteller’s discretion.
success. •	 Extra Successes: Assuming your roll succeeds, you 

•	 No 10-again: Do not reroll 10s on chance dice. get a number of extra successes added to your total. 
This permutation mostly applies to weapons, which 

•	 Dramatic Failure: A chance die showing a 1 is a add their damage bonus as extra successes on your 
dramatic failure (below). attack roll.

Roll Results •	 Rote Actions: When you’ve got plenty of train-
ing and the steps you need to follow are laid out 

Once you’ve rolled all the dice, counted all your suc- in front of you, you’ve got a significant chance of 
cesses, and finished any rerolls or other permutations, it’s success. When you make a roll with the rote qual-
time to see how your character fared. On most actions, ity, reroll any dice that do not show an 8, 9, or 10. 
you’ll only worry about whether your character succeeded If you’re reduced to a chance die on a rote action, 
or failed. Sometimes, however, the outcome of an action don’t reroll a dramatic failure. You may only reroll 
is more dramatic. each die once. Certain Conditions, Merits, or other 

Roll Result Basics special circumstances may award you the rote qual-
ity on specific kinds of rolls.

•	 Success: 1-4 successes. Your character’s action suc-
ceeds. •	 Successive Attempts: When you fail a roll, you 

may be able to try again. Normally, you make suc-
•	 Exceptional Success: 5+ successes. Your charac- cessive attempts with your full dice pool. If time is 

ter’s action succeeds, and your character gains a short and the situation is tense, each subsequent 
beneficial Condition (p. 181). Usually, the Inspired attempt instead has a cumulative one-die penalty 
Condition is the most appropriate. Specific actions — so the third time a character tries to break down 
might have additional effects on an exceptional the door that’s keeping her from escaping a Hunts-
success. man, her roll suffers a −2 penalty. Successive at-

tempts do not apply to extended actions.
•	 Failure: 0 successes. Your character’s action fails. 

•	 Teamwork: Working together can be vital for re-
•	 Dramatic Failure: chance die shows a 1. Your sisting the True Fae…or just dealing with the trou-

character’s action fails, and something goes signifi- bles of the mortal world. See p. 190.
cantly awry. Specific actions might have additional 
effects on a dramatic failure. Otherwise, the Story- When to Roll Dice
teller decides on an appropriate turn of events.

You don’t need to roll dice for many actions. If your 
•	 Voluntary Dramatic Failure: Take a Beat and character isn’t in a stressful situation — nobody’s actively 

convert a failure into a dramatic failure, up to once trying to tear his throat open or demolish the building as 
per scene. he works — you don’t need to roll; as long as it’s some-

thing your character could reasonably do, he just does it.
Permutations When the dice hit the table, the Storyteller should 

Changeling: The Lost has a few variations in how have some idea of what will happen if the roll fails, as 
dice rolls work. well as if it succeeds. Sometimes that’s coded in the rules. 

If you fail on an attack roll, for example, you don’t deal 
•	 9-Again: Reroll dice that show 9 or 10, as opposed any damage. Other times, it’s up to the Storyteller. If you 

to just 10. Keep rerolling until you get a result that fail a roll to jump between buildings to catch a group of 
isn’t a 9 or 10. Certain Conditions, Merits, or other hobgoblins, do you make it but fall on the other side, grab 
special circumstances may award you 9-again on the next building by your fingertips, or plummet to the 
specific kinds of rolls. If you gain 9-again on a roll alley below?
that already had that quality, it becomes 8-again 
instead.

176 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Time
Time in the story can speed past or slow to a crawl compared to time in the real world. Weeks or months 
might pass in the space of few words, while a tense negotiation plays out in real time — or takes even longer.

In addition to years, days, hours, and so on, Changeling also uses five units of dramatic time. These 
build upon one another, from shortest to longest.

•	 Turn — The smallest increment of time, a turn lasts for about three seconds. A character can per-
form a single instant action and move their Speed in a turn. Turns normally only matter in action 
scenes, like fights, chases, and other dramatic and stressful situations.

•	 Scene — Much like a scene in a play, a scene in a roleplaying game is the time spent dealing with 
a single, specific event. The Storyteller frames the scene, describing what’s going on, and it’s up 
to the players to resolve the event or conflict. A scene might play out in turns (called an action 
scene), progress in real time, or skip forward depending on dramatic necessity.

•	 Chapter — A chapter is the collection of scenes that happen during one game session. From the 
moment you sit down and start playing to the point where you pack up your dice, you’re playing 
out a chapter of your story.

•	 Story — A story tells an entire tale, following the dramatic arc of a related series of events. It might 
comprise several chapters or complete in just one. It has an introduction, rising tension, a number 
of twists, and a climax that brings things to a conclusion.

•	 Chronicle — The big picture, a chronicle is the collection of interlinked stories that involve your 
characters. A common theme or overarching plotline might link them, or they may only share 
characters and locations. As your story progresses, the players and Storyteller work together to 
create an ongoing chronicle.

Actions Actions by Opposition
Changeling: The Lost rates each action by two cri- •	 Simple: No opposition. Calculate dice pool and 

teria: how long it takes to attempt, and whether another roll results as normal.
character opposes it. All actions fall into one category 
in both arenas: An action might be instant and simple •	 Contested: Calculate dice pool as normal and roll. 
(usually just abbreviated to “instant”), extended and con- The target rolls a dice pool specified by how they 
tested, or reflexive and resisted, for example. contest the action. If your total successes exceed 

the target’s, your action succeeds; if their total suc-
Actions by Time cesses exceed yours, your action fails.

•	 Instant: The action resolves in a single roll. Unless 	 If you and your target roll the same number of 
otherwise noted, an instant action only takes a few successes, both of you reroll the same pools until 
seconds and takes up your turn in an action scene. someone comes out on top.

•	 Reflexive: The action takes no appreciable time or •	 Resisted: Calculate dice pool, then apply a penalty 
effort, and resolves in a single roll, or may not re- equal to one of the target’s Resistance Attributes 
quire a roll at all. In an action scene, you can take (Stamina, Resolve, or Composure) or Defense. 
reflexive actions on other characters’ turns, and re- Roll, and calculate roll results as normal.
flexive actions don’t take up your turn. Contesting 
someone else’s action is always reflexive. Extended Actions

•	 Extended: The action requires multiple rolls over time Some actions require a great deal of effort over time, 
to complete; as such, an extended action is not usually and represent the sort of project you can abandon and 
an option in action scenes, unless otherwise noted. resume later. Such actions are modeled as extended 

Actions 177



that even a particularly skilled character will have trouble 
pulling off. 

Contested  The Storyteller also determines the interval between 
or Resisted? rolls. If an action would take weeks to complete, she might 

consider one roll per week. If it’s likely to take a day’s 
If you’re not sure whether to use resistance or work, one roll per hour makes for a solid timeframe.
a contested action, use this guideline: Resis-
tance applies in situations where the number Once you determine those factors, make a number of 
of successes on the roll is an important factor. rolls, counting up the total number of successes across all 
If what matters is just whether the roll succeeds your rolls. If you earn the required number of successes 
or not, use a contested action. For example, before you run out of time, you accomplish your goal.
violence applies Defense as a resistance 
because the number of successes on the roll Extended Action Basics
determines how badly the attacker messes up •	 Multiple Rolls: You roll your dice pool multiple 
his victim. A Contract that inflicts a Condition 
uses a contested action, because the number times over the course of the action. Successes earned 
of successes you roll doesn’t matter. on all rolls count toward completing the action.

•	 Roll Limit: You can make a total number of rolls 
When to Use  equal to your base dice pool for the action, before 

Extended Actions factoring in any modifiers. The Storyteller may re-
duce this value if time is short.

As Storyteller, when should you call for an ex-
tended action vs. an instant action that takes •	 Time Interval: Each roll takes a certain amount of 
a defined amount of time? Use the following time, determined by the Storyteller.
guidelines:

•	 Required Successes: The Storyteller sets the total 
•	 Time Pressure: If the Huntsman will number of successes required for the action, usually 

arrive at dusk and the characters need between five and 20.
to fix their car before that happens, the 
question of “how long does it take?” has Extended Action Roll Results
real stakes and tension. If the characters 
aren’t under time pressure, extended ac- These apply to each roll of an extended action. Spe-
tions can feel like a lot of tedious rolling cific extended actions may have additional effects.
for no reason. Success: Add the successes earned on the roll to your 

running total. Work with the Storyteller to determine 
•	 Take a Break: Extended actions are what steps your character has taken toward his goal.

best suited for things the character could 
conceivably abandon for some time and Exceptional Success: Choose one: reduce the total 
then resume later: fortifying a Hollow or number of successes required by your character’s Skill 
researching the weaknesses of a particu- dots, reduce the time interval for each following roll by 
lar goblin, for example. If it’s something a quarter, or apply the exceptional success result of the 
that has to be done all in one go, like entire action when you complete your goal.
finding the True Fae’s Regalia manifesta- Failure: You face a setback. The Storyteller offers you 
tion or casing a scene, it’s probably bet-
ter modeled as an instant action unless a choice: Take a Condition (p. 181) of her choice, or aban-
time is short. don the action. You can offer a different Condition if you 

think it makes sense. If you refuse or cannot agree on a 
Condition, you lose all accumulated successes.

Dramatic Failure: Lose all accumulated successes. In 
actions, and they’re a little more complex than instant or addition, the first roll on a subsequent attempt suffers a 
reflexive actions. two-die penalty.

When you take an extended action, the Storyteller Common Actions
determines how many total successes you require. Most 
actions require between five and 20 successes. Five re- The following list represents some of the more com-
flects a reasonable action that competent characters can mon actions characters might undertake in a Change-
achieve with the right tools and knowledge. Ten repre- ling: The Lost game. They are presented here in a highly 
sents a difficult action that’s still realistic for a profession- condensed form; for more detailed discussions of many of 
al in the field. Twenty represents a very difficult action these actions, see the Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook.

178 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



•	 Failure: The other party doesn’t believe you.

ARGUMENT •	 Dramatic: The other party has a good idea what 
(Instant and Contested; Intelligence + Expression the truth is.

vs. target’s Resolve + Composure)

You try to sway someone with a rational argument. HACKING
(If arguing with a crowd, use the highest Resolve in the (Extended and Contested; Intelligence + 
crowd.) (See also Social maneuvering, p. 191.) Computer vs. victim’s Intelligence + Computer)
•	 Success: They accept the truth (or apparent truth) 

of your words. You overcome network security and computer pass-
words to gain access to digital resources.

•	 Exceptional: They’re convinced and become re-
cruits to your point of view, though they might •	 Success: You access the computer or network as 
change their minds if they find themselves at risk. though you had proper clearance, but you only 

have a short time before someone notices.
•	 Failure: They listen but are ultimately unaffected.

•	 Exceptional: You access the computer or network, 
•	 Dramatic: You convince them of quite the oppo- and no one will notice until you’ve got what you 

site. came for.

•	 Failure: You’re locked out of the system and you 
CAROUSING can’t access anything.

(Instant; Presence + Socialize or Streetwise •	 Dramatic: You trip an alarm or corrupt your own 
flash drive beyond use.

You mix with a group, bringing high spirits with you 
and using them to loosen tongues.
•	 Success: You make a single-serving friend who INTERROGATION

might be willing to pass secrets or go with you (Extended and Resisted; Manipulation + 
somewhere private. Empathy or Intimidation − victim’s Resolve)

•	 Exceptional: You make a friend you can contact You try to dig secrets out of a reluctant informant. 
again. (See also Social maneuvering, p. 191.)

•	 Failure: You end up a wallflower, with a drink in •	 Success: You get the information you were looking 
your hand that you don’t even want. for; one piece per success rolled.

•	 Dramatic: A faux pas reveals that you don’t be- •	 Exceptional: You get the information you were 
long…and maybe even hints at your dread purpose. looking for, and the informant is willing to con-

tinue cooperating.

FAST-TALK •	 Failure: The informant blabs a mix of truth and 
falsehood — even he may not know the difference.

(Instant and Contested; Manipulation + 
Subterfuge vs. victim’s Composure + Empathy) •	 Dramatic: The informant is so alienated or injured 

that he will no longer reveal information.
You may not be able to win the argument with facts, 

but you can try to get out of trouble with a little judicious 
spin. INTIMIDATION
•	 Success: The other party swallows your story. (Instant and Contested; Strength or Manipulation  

+ Intimidation vs. victim’s Resolve + Composure)
•	 Exceptional: The other party believes you so thor-

oughly that they’re even willing to offer a little You try to get someone to do what you want by mak-
aid…though they won’t put themselves at any kind ing them afraid of you.
of risk.

Actions 179



•	 Success: They’re coerced into helping you. •	 Failure: You find evidence, but it’s damaged and 
hard to interpret. Or you miss a spot in your clean 

•	 Exceptional: They develop a lasting fear of you, up that you won’t find out about until later.
which could make them easier to coerce in the fu-
ture. •	 Dramatic: You find clues but you contaminate 

them, or you leave evidence of your presence.
•	 Failure: They’re unimpressed with your threats.

•	 Dramatic: They don’t take you seriously, even if 
you knock them around a bit. They won’t be doing JUMPING
what you want. (Instant; Strength + Athletics – (yards  

or meters of distance))

INVESTIGATING A SCENE To get past an obstacle or out of danger, you leap into 
(Extended; Intelligence + Investigation) the air.

•	 Success: You clear the obstacle or avoid the dan-
You look for clues to what’s happened in the recent ger.

past…or tidy up so that no one else can find them. (See 
also Investigation, p. 194.) •	 Exceptional: You may attempt another instant ac-

tion in the air or upon landing.
•	 Success: You find a clue of exactly the sort you 

need or manage to significantly confuse future in- •	 Failure: You don’t achieve any significant distance 
vestigators. at all — you jump too early, get a false start, or lose 

your nerve.
•	 Exceptional: You find a clue, and know exactly 

how it fits in, or you leave the scene immaculate •	 Dramatic: The task not only fails, but you lose 
and impossible to decipher. your balance.

180 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



•	 Failure: You’re noticed but still have the chance to 

RESEARCH slip away.

(Extended; Intelligence + Academics or Occult) •	 Dramatic: You attract a lot of attention…enough 
that now it’s going to be hard to get out.

Using your existing knowledge, you look for informa-
tion on a current mystery. Willpower
•	 Success: You find the basic facts you were looking A changeling’s Willpower represents her determina-

for. tion and her ability to go above and beyond what should 
be possible to achieve her goals.

•	 Exceptional: You find what you were looking for, 
which leads towards a much bigger score of infor- Changeling and mortal characters regain one point of 
mation. Willpower from a full night’s sleep.

Spending Willpower
•	 Failure: You turn up a lot of promising leads, but 

they’re all dead ends. •	 Reflexive Action: Unless otherwise specified, 
spending Willpower is a reflexive action.

•	 Dramatic: You learn something, but it doesn’t 
help. In fact, it sets you back. If using Occult, this •	 Roll Bonus: Spend 1 Willpower to gain a three-die 
could mean dangerously false assumptions. bonus on a single dice pool.

•	 Increased Resistance: Spend 1 Willpower to gain 

SHADOWING A MARK +2 to resistance (see above) against a single action.

(Instant and Contested; Wits + Stealth or  •	 Other Expenditures: Other abilities may require 
Drive vs. Wits + Composure) Willpower expenditure, as noted under their Cost.

•	 Per Action Limit: Characters may only spend 1 
You follow someone, perhaps in the hopes of ambush- Willpower per action.

ing them, or of finding out their destination.
•	 Success: You follow the mark to his destination. Conditions
•	 Exceptional: You find some means by which you Conditions represent ways in which the story has 

can continue following the mark, such as an un- affected a character, and what he can do to move past 
locked entrance into the building he arrived at. those events. Players don’t buy Conditions; events in 

the game apply them and they remain until certain 
•	 Failure: The mark senses he’s being followed and resolution criteria are met. A character can only have 

manages to lose you. one instance of a particular Condition unless each ap-
plies to a distinctly different circumstance — for ex-

•	 Dramatic: You’re caught, either by the mark or ample, he may be Informed about both the occult sym-
some observer that’s become suspicious of you. bol he stayed up all night to research and the inner 

workings of the corporation he infiltrated. He’d resolve 
each independently. Various systems and supernatural 

SNEAKING powers bring Conditions into play, and the Storyteller can 
(Instant and Contested; Dexterity + Stealth  do so based on story circumstances.

vs. Wits + Composure) A list of sample Conditions can be found on 
p. 333. The listed resolutions for each Condition 

You’re trying to avoid notice by someone, or some- are the most common ways to end its effects; other actions 
thing…or multiple somethings. Maybe you want to get may also resolve it if they would reasonably cause the Condi-
into a place undetected. Maybe you’re trying to break out. tion’s effects to end. When a character resolves a Condition, 

the player takes a Beat. However, if a Condition has a nat-
•	 Success: You avoid notice and get closer to your ural time limit and then fades away without proper resolu-

goal. tion, he doesn’t take a Beat. If a Condition lingers beyond 
•	 Exceptional: You avoid notice and get away before its relevance in the story, the player and Storyteller may 

anyone has another chance to catch you. agree to simply let it fade. A player can only earn one Beat 
by resolving Conditions in each scene.

Conditions 181



Some Conditions are marked as Persistent. These •	 How Long It Lasts: A turn is roughly three sec-
Conditions last for a long time, and can only be resolved onds. If an effect says it lasts “until your next turn,” 
permanently with a specific and impressive effort. Once it lasts until the beginning of your next turn.
per chapter, a player can gain a Beat when a Persistent 
Condition impacts his character’s life. •	 Order of Action: Characters involved in an action 

scene take turns one at a time in order of Initiative, 
Improvised Conditions from highest to lowest.

Storytellers shouldn’t feel limited by the list of Conditions •	 Cycle: Once all characters involved in the scene 
in the Appendix (p. 333). As a rough guideline, a Condition have acted, the order of action returns to the 
typically consists of a modifier between +2 and −2 dice to character with the highest Initiative. Initiative 
a certain type of action, or to any action taken with a cer- can change from turn to turn, if for instance one 
tain motivation. A Condition resolves when the character’s character delays his action, or a supernatural power 
done something significant to act on it, or when she addresses makes a character faster or slower.
the original source. The sample Conditions later in this book 
have examples of how to resolve them, but you can also re- Initiative
solve them after other events if it makes sense in the story. •	 Calculating: When you come into the action scene, 

If play bogs down as you search for the right Condi- roll one die and add the result to your Initiative modi-
tion, just improvise one and keep things going. fier (p. 92). This is the only roll in the game on which 

Lingering Conditions you treat the result of the die as a number rather than 
a success or not. Wielding a weapon inflicts a penalty 

Conditions are designed as reminders that events to Initiative based on the type of weapon (p. 323).
that happened earlier in the story have repercussions lat-
er. Usually, Chekhov’s gun applies — if you put the Con- •	 Delaying: You may choose not to act when your 
dition on stage, it should fire by the end of the story. But turn comes up and instead act at any point later 
stories are slippery things, and sometimes a story thread in the scene, even if the order of action has reset. 
represented by a Condition is better to drop for the sake When you do act, change your Initiative to the Ini-
of the overall narrative. tiative you acted on for the rest of the scene.

For example, an emotional state like Swooned might •	 Surprise: If the start of the action might take a char-
no longer be relevant to events in the game because a long acter unawares, the Storyteller may call for a surprise 
time has passed, or it might have been the result of an in- roll. Roll the character’s Wits + Composure, possibly 
teraction with a character you don’t care about anymore. contested by an opponent’s relevant dice pool (Dex-
In those cases, it’s perfectly fine to just cross off the Con- terity + Stealth for an ambush, Manipulation + Sub-
dition. We recommend awarding a Beat as if resolving it, terfuge if they lull you into a false sense of security, 
but that’s at the Storyteller’s discretion. etc.). If the surprised character’s roll fails, they cannot 

We recommend doing this sparingly, but the bottom act or apply their Defense until their second turn.
line is: If a Condition doesn’t feel relevant to the story 
anymore, just let it go. Defense
Action Scenes Defense measures your character’s ability to react to 

danger and mitigate harm to herself. It’s most often used 
Sometimes it’s useful to zoom in close on the action when violence breaks out, but is sometimes used to resist 

and track things moment by moment, with a clear un- harm from other sources as well.
derstanding of who does what in what order. These are 
action scenes, and to keep everyone’s actions straight, they Defense Basics
proceed by turns in order of Initiative. The most common •	 Resistance: Defense counts as a Resistance Attri-
action scenes are fights, but the Storyteller can call for bute (p. 177) for any rule that interacts with Resis-
one any time complex things are happening very quickly, tance (e.g. spending Willpower).
like an escape from the Hedge or a heist to steal a power-
ful token from a rival freehold. •	 Multiple Hazards: In an action scene, each time 

you resist an action with your Defense, you suffer 
Turns a cumulative −1 penalty to Defense. This penalty 

•	 What You Can Do: On your turn, move up to goes away at the beginning of your next turn. You 
your Speed and take one instant action, or move can choose not to resist an action with Defense; if 
twice your Speed. you do, the penalty doesn’t increase.

182 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Tilts
Tilts apply temporary circumstances to both charac- Optional Rules: 

ters and the environment during action scenes. Outside 
action scenes, use Conditions instead. Beaten Down  

Tilts do not grant Beats when they end, but the ef- & Surrender
fects of a Tilt can easily cause a Condition. For instance, A character who takes more than his Stamina 
a character in a fight gets a handful of road salt flung into in bashing damage or any amount of lethal 
his eyes and receives the Blinded Tilt. When the action damage suffers the Beaten Down Tilt (p. 327): 
scene ends, this shifts to the Blind Condition. Resolving He’s had the fight knocked out of him.
this Condition grants a Beat as usual. If the character en-
ters an action scene again before the Condition resolves, A character can choose to surrender, giving 
the Blinded Tilt applies again. his attacker what she wants. If your character 

surrenders, regain a point of Willpower and 
Tilts come in two forms: Personal and Environmen- take a Beat, and stop participating in the fight. 

tal. Personal Tilts only apply to one character and include Your character’s opponent must spend a point 
ways in which that character can overcome the effect. En- of Willpower to attack him.
vironmental Tilts affect the whole scene, and offer ways 
for individual characters to mitigate their effects. For a list If one side’s intent involves violence for its own 
of sample Tilts, see p. 327. sake, their intended victims don’t get Beaten 

Down and can’t surrender. When someone 

Violence wants to kill you, the only thing you can do is 
to try to stop her, whether you run like hell or 

Few changelings seek out violent lives. But creatures unload a shotgun at her.
both fae and mortal try to get their way with physical These optional rules only apply to people 
force. The Lost must resist…and sometimes, they must who would incur a breaking point for commit-
strike first. ting (or attempting) murder.

Intent
Everybody wants something out of a conflict. The 

very first thing you need to do — before worrying about as a separate Down and Dirty Combat action. If the group 
who attacks first or anything like that — is determine only has one intent but multiple characters are participating, 
what each character wants to get out of the fight. Boil it they can use teamwork (see p. 190) on the roll. Players can 
down into a simple sentence that starts with the words “I call for Down and Dirty Combat, with the Storyteller’s ap-
want,” as in “I want Laura’s bracelet,” or “I want to rescue proval. Storyteller characters might deal damage as a result 
Dylan.” of a Down and Dirty Combat, but they can’t initiate one.

Declaring Intent Action: Instant and contested; takes anywhere from 
30 seconds to a few minutes.

•	 By Violence: Intent must be something achievable Dice Pool: Combat pool (Dexterity + Firearms, 
by violence within the current scene. Strength + Brawl, or Strength + Weaponry) versus ei-

•	 The Price: If your intent doesn’t include causing ther the opponent’s combat pool (as above) or an attempt 
harm and your character ends up killing someone, to escape (Strength or Dexterity + Athletics). 
lose one Willpower point. Roll Results

Down and  Success: Inflict damage equal to the difference in 
successes + weapon modifier and achieve your intent — 

Dirty Combat including killing, if that was on the table. 
The Storyteller might decide that your character can Exceptional Success: As success, and gain 1 Willpower.

get what she wants without focusing on the details of the Failure: Do not achieve your intent. If the opponent 
fight. Maybe she’s picking on people weaker than her. rolled a combat pool, suffer damage equal to the differ-
Maybe the fight’s not the important thing going on with ence in successes + opponent’s weapon modifier. Oppo-
regards to the character’s intent. In these cases, the Story- nent escapes if they want to.
teller can opt to use Down and Dirty Combat. Dramatic Failure: The opposite of your character’s 

This system resolves the entire fight in a single roll. If intent happens, or she’s knocked out or suffers other seri-
multiple characters have separate intents, resolve each intent ous consequences.

Violence 183



•	 Unarmed Attack: Strength + Brawl – Defense; 
bashing damage

Specified Targets
•	 Melee Attack: Strength + Weaponry – Defense; 

A normal attack is aimed at the target’s center lethal damage
of mass. You can aim for specific body parts 
by taking a penalty on your attack roll. Attack- •	 Ranged Attack: Dexterity + Firearms; lethal 
ing a specific body part can bypass armor damage
(p. 187) or inflict a Tilt (p. 183) on the 
target. Attacks against specified targets aren’t •	 Thrown Attack: Dexterity + Athletics – Defense; 
a way to inflict extra damage or instantly kill lethal damage
people; that’s covered by simply rolling a lot 
of successes on the attack action. •	 Touching an Opponent: Dexterity + Brawl or 

Dexterity + Weaponry; inflicts no damage.
The following modifiers assume a target 
roughly human in size and shape. The •	 Damage: A successful attack inflicts damage equal 
Storyteller can adjust these for more unusual to the number of successes rolled + weapon modi-
targets. fier (p. 323), if any.
•	 Arm (−2): If damage exceeds the •	 Pulling Blows: Set a maximum damage value up 

victim’s Stamina, it inflicts the Arm Wrack to the highest trait in your attack dice pool, and 
Tilt. grant the target +1 Defense. Your attack cannot 

•	 Leg (−2): If damage exceeds the inflict more than the maximum damage you set.
victim’s Stamina, it inflicts the Leg Wrack 
Tilt. •	 Offhand Attack: Take a two-die penalty to attacks 

made with the character’s non-dominant hand.
•	 Head (−3): If damage equals or 

exceeds the victim’s Size, it inflicts the Dodge
Stunned Tilt. Dodging is a reflexive action, but your character can 

only do it if she hasn’t taken an action yet this turn, and 
•	 Heart (−3): If damage equals or it takes up her action for the turn.

exceeds 5, the attack pierces the victim’s 
heart. •	 Contested Attacks: Attacks made against your 

character become contested instead of resisted 
•	 Hand (−4): If the attack deals any until your next turn. Contest attacks with double 

damage, it inflicts the Arm Wrack Tilt. your Defense as your dice pool, and unlike a nor-
mal contested action, your successes cancel out the 

•	 Eye (−5): If the attack deals any dam- attacker’s successes on a one-for-one basis. Don’t 
age, it inflicts the Blinded Tilt. reroll ties; if you cancel out all the successes, the 

attack simply fails.

•	 Multiple Attackers: Apply the Defense penalty for 
Detailed Violence multiple attackers before doubling. If your charac-

When the fight is a significant event in the story, or ter’s Defense is reduced to 0, roll a chance die.
Down and Dirty Combat doesn’t suit, use these rules. •	 Dramatic Failure: Defense suffers a −1 penalty 
Violence like this is an action scene (p. 182). until your next turn.

Actions in a Fight Special Maneuvers
The most common action in a fight is to attack. Char- To enact any of the following instant actions, the 

acters can also dodge or push themselves to the limit, sac- character sacrifices her Defense until her next turn. If 
rificing Defense for greater effect. the character has already lost her Defense, for example by 

Attack being surprised or attacked by enough opponents in one 
turn to reduce her Defense to 0, she cannot take any of 

All attack actions are instant actions. Unarmed, me- these actions.
lee, and thrown attacks are resisted, while ranged attacks 
and touching an opponent are simple actions. •	 Charge: Move up to twice your character’s Speed 

and make an unarmed or melee attack.

184 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



•	 All-Out Attack: Make an unarmed or melee at- Grapple Options
tack with a two-die bonus.

•	 Break Free: The grapple ends, and your character 
•	 Aim: Keep an opponent in your sights with a may take another instant action immediately.

ranged weapon to gain a one-die bonus per con-
secutive Aim action on your next attack against •	 Control Weapon: Take firm hold of a weapon, ei-
that target, to a maximum of three bonus dice. In- ther your character’s or her opponent’s. Lasts until 
compatible with autofire (below). your character’s opponent chooses Control Weap-

on. Required for other grapple options.
Other Actions

•	 Damage: Treat the grapple action as an un-
These are all instant actions. armed attack, inf licting damage equal to your 

•	 Drop Prone/Stand Up: Ranged attacks against rolled successes. If you have control of a weapon, 
prone characters suffer a two-die penalty, but un- this counts as a melee attack with the weapon’s 
armed and melee attacks against prone characters modifier.
gain a two-die bonus if the attacker is standing.

•	 Disarm: Remove a weapon from the grapple en-
•	 Reload a Weapon: If rounds must be loaded indi- tirely. Requires Control Weapon.

vidually, lose Defense until your next turn.
•	 Drop Prone: Throw all participants to the ground. 

•	 Killing Blow: Inflict damage equal to your attack’s Requires Break Free to stand back up.
dice pool + weapon bonus. Requires an uncon-
scious, immobilized, or otherwise helpless target. •	 Hold: Immobilize an opponent. Both characters 
May prompt a breaking point. lose Defense.

•	 Restrain: Your opponent suffers the Immobilized 
Unarmed Violence Tilt (p. 330). Requires Hold. If your character uses 

These rules present special cases that come up when equipment to restrain her opponent, she can leave 
fighting without weapons. the grapple.

Bite •	 Take Cover: Any ranged attacks against your 
Biting counts as an unarmed attack action. character automatically hit her opponent. Lasts 

until your next turn.
•	 Damage: Human teeth inflict −1 bashing damage 

(so an attack that rolls only one success inflicts no Ranged Violence
damage). Animals and monsters may treat their teeth 
as weapons, with a bonus between +1 and +4. These rules present special cases that come up when 

shooting at people.
•	 Grapple Required: Humans must first grapple an 

opponent to bite them. Autofire
Automatic weapons can fire a short, medium, or long 

Grapple burst in place of a single shot.
Grappling counts as an unarmed attack action. To •	 Short Burst: Uses three bullets. +1 bonus to at-

start grappling, you have to grab your opponent. tack action.
•	 Grab: Make an unarmed attack. On a success, inflict 

no damage but start a grapple. On an exceptional suc- •	 Medium Burst: Uses 10 bullets. +2 bonus to attack 
cess, also choose a grapple option to enact reflexively. action. Can attack multiple targets, up to three.

•	 One Action: All participants in the grapple act on •	 Long Burst: Uses 20 bullets. +3 bonus to attack 
the highest Initiative among them. The only action action. Can attack multiple targets, with no limit.
they can take is the grappling action. •	 Multiple Targets: −1 penalty per target after the 

•	 Grappling: Instant and contested; Strength + Brawl first. Roll individually against each target.
vs. Strength + Brawl. The character with the most Range
successes chooses a grapple option to enact immedi-
ately, or two grapple options on an exceptional suc- Ranged attacks suffer a dice penalty the farther 
cess. On a tie, the characters continue to grapple but away the target is. Ranged weapons have a short, medi-
nothing else happens. um, and slong range listed on the weapons table (p. 324).

Violence 185



•	 Short Range: No penalty. In Close Combat: Wielding a ranged weapon larger 
than Size 1 in close quarters grants the opponent (weap-

•	 Medium Range: −1 on’s Size + 1) as a bonus to Defense.

•	 Long Range: −2 Shooting into Close Combat: Take a two-die pen-
alty for each character involved in close combat with your 

Concealment target that you want to avoid hitting, or a four-die penalty 
If the target of a ranged attack is partially or fully if they’re grappling your target. You can’t selectively avoid 

obscured, she has concealment. Concealment applies a targets this way with autofire.
penalty to the shooter’s dice pool. Weapons and Armor
•	 Barely Concealed: −1 (hiding behind an office 

chair) Weapons are one of the fastest ways to turn a fight 
into a murder, but sometimes the best defense is a good 

•	 Partially Concealed: −2 (hiding behind the hood offense. Armor, meanwhile, keeps a character from griev-
of a car, with upper body exposed) ous harm. Traits for specific weapons and armor are in 

Appendix 2: Equipment, starting on p. 322.
•	 Substantially Concealed: −3 (crouching behind a 

car). Weapons
Ranged and melee weapons share certain common 

•	 Shooting from Concealment: Barely concealed: traits.
no penalty; partially concealed: −1; substantially 
concealed: −2. You can ignore this penalty, but if •	 Type: A weapon’s type is a general classification 
so you lose your own concealment until your next that fits any number of specific weapons. A metal 
turn. club might be a crowbar or a length of rebar, while 

a light revolver might be one of any number of .22-
Cover .38 caliber weapons.
If a target’s entirely hidden by something substantial, 

he’s in cover. •	 Damage: Added to successes rolled on attack to 
determine total damage inflicted.

•	 Tough Cover: If the cover’s Durability (p. 191) is 
greater than the attacker’s weapon modifier, the at- •	 Initiative: The penalty to Initiative when wielding 
tack can’t penetrate the cover. the weapon.

•	 Less Tough Cover: Subtract the cover’s Durabil- •	 Strength: The minimum Strength needed to use a 
ity from the attacker’s damage roll. Both the object weapon effectively. A wielder with a lower Strength 
and the target take any remaining damage. suffers a −1 penalty on attack rolls.

•	 Transparent Cover: If the cover is transparent •	 Availability: The cost in Resources dots or level of 
(bulletproof glass, for example), subtract half the Social Merit needed to acquire the weapon.
cover’s Durability, rounding down. Both the object 
and the target take any remaining damage. Improvised Weapons
Covering Fire Characters who grab lamps and pool cues still stand a 

chance of dealing serious damage.
With a weapon capable of autofire, a character can 

lay down covering fire to keep anyone from entering his •	 Use Existing Weapon Traits: If it’s close enough 
target area. to a weapon in the chart on p. 323, use the associ-

ated weapon traits. For example, a pool cue might 
•	 Action: Instant count as a sap.
•	 Dice Pool: Dexterity + Firearms •	 Improvised Weapon Traits: If it’s not similar to a 
•	 Bullets: Uses 10 bullets. weapon in the chart, its damage modifier is (object’s 

Durability −1); Initiative penalty and Strength re-
•	 Characters in Area of Effect: On their next turn, quirement equal to weapon’s Size.

they must either take cover within range of their 
Speed or drop prone, to avoid suffering damage •	 Attack Modifiers: −1 to attack roll. If successful, 
equal to successes on covering fire roll + weapon the improvised weapon takes the same damage it 
modifier. inflicts; Durability applies.

186 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Armor damage. If you mark over bashing damage, move 
Armor provides protection against attacks, including that bashing damage to the rightmost empty box of 

bullets, knives, and fangs. the track. If no empty boxes are left, that damage 
is overwritten but not moved.

Armor Basics
•	 Aggravated: Mark aggravated damage with an (*) 

•	 Ballistic Armor: Each point of ballistic armor in the leftmost box that does not already contain 
downgrades one point of lethal damage from fire- aggravated damage. If you mark over bashing dam-
arms to bashing. age, move that bashing damage to the rightmost 

•	 General Armor: Each point of general armor re- empty box. If no empty boxes are left, that damage 
duces the total damage taken by one point, starting is overwritten but not moved. If you mark over lethal 
with the most severe type of damage. damage, move that lethal damage to the rightmost 

box that is empty or contains bashing damage. If no 
•	 Order of Operation: If armor has both ballistic empty boxes or boxes containing bashing damage are 

and general ratings, apply the ballistic armor first. left, that damage is overwritten but not moved.

•	 Minimum Damage: When applying armor to an •	 Upgrading Damage: If your character suffers bash-
attack inflicting lethal damage, you always suffer at ing damage but has no empty Health boxes in which 
least one point of bashing damage from the shock to mark it, upgrade each point of bashing damage to 
of the blow. lethal damage. If she suffers lethal damage but has no 

empty Health boxes or boxes marked with bashing 
Armor Piercing damage, upgrade her leftmost Health box that’s filled 

with lethal damage to aggravated damage.
Some weapons have an armor-piercing rating, usually 

between 1 and 3. When attacking someone wearing ar- Effects of Damage
mor, subtract the armor-piercing rating from the target’s 
armor. Subtract from ballistic armor first, then general •	 Wound Penalties: If your character has any dam-
armor. Armor-piercing attacks in close combat subtract age marked in her third-to-last Health box, she suf-
from general armor only. fers a −1 penalty to all actions except Stamina rolls 

to stay conscious. This increases to −2 when her 
When shooting at an object — or a person in cover second-to-last Health box is filled, and −3 when 

— subtract the armor-piercing quality from the object’s her last Health box is filled.
Durability.

I •	 Unconscious: If your character’s rightmost Health 
njury and Healing box is filled with bashing or lethal damage, roll her 

Characters can suffer three types of damage. Fists Stamina every turn as a reflexive action. Failure 
and feet, along with other kinds of low-impact trauma, means she falls unconscious until her rightmost 
deal bashing damage. Brass knuckles, knives, and speed- Health box is empty.
ing trucks deal lethal damage. Some horrifying powers 

•	 Bleeding Out: If your character’s rightmost Health 
deal aggravated damage. When something deals aggravat-

box is filled with lethal damage, she suffers 1 lethal 
ed damage directly, it’s quite obvious. Flesh bubbles and 

damage per turn until she receives medical atten-
sloughs away. Foaming pustules taint the victim’s flesh. 

tion (p. 188). 
Blackened veins streak out from the site of the injury.

Suffering Damage •	 Dead:  If your character’s rightmost Health box is 
filled with aggravated damage, she is dead.

When a rule tells you to suffer an amount of damage, 
you mark off that many Health boxes, starting from the Example of Marking Damage
leftmost side and continuing to the right. A box marked Juliet has seven boxes of Health. She’s just taken two 
with any kind of damage is called a point. points of bashing damage. Her Health boxes look like this:

Damage Basics
•	 Bashing: Mark bashing damage with a (/) in the 

leftmost empty box of the Health track. 
If a briarwolf later bites her and deals a point of lethal 

•	 Lethal: Mark lethal damage with an (X) in the damage, her Health track looks like this:
leftmost box that is empty or filled with bashing 

Injury and Healing 187



•	 Dice Pool: Dexterity + Medicine with a one-min-
ute interval, for emergency treatment; Intelligence 
+ Medicine with a one-hour interval, for long-term 

If Juliet next suffered a point of aggravated damage, hospital care.
her Health boxes would look like this:

•	 Benefits of Emergency Care: Requires total suc-
cesses equal to total damage the patient suffers. 
Successful treatment heals one point of bashing 
damage.

Healing
•	 Benefits of Long-Term Care: Successful treat-

Characters need time to heal once they’ve been ment downgrades one point of aggravated damage 
beaten to a pulp. Normally, a character can heal without to lethal, or one point of lethal damage to bashing. 
medical attention, though use of the Medicine Skill will Requires 10 total successes per aggravated wound, 
help him recover (see below). The only exception is if a 5 per lethal.
character has all her Health boxes full of lethal damage 
— she’s bleeding out. She can’t recover from that without •	 Long-Term Care Limitations: Heals the leftmost 
urgent medical attention and emergency surgery. injury first and can only downgrade one wound per 

Changeling characters heal at the same rates as mor- patient per day.
tal characters.

Healing Basics Sources of Harm
•	 Rightmost Box: Natural healing only affects the In addition to damage suffered in fights, characters 

rightmost point of damage. Once the rightmost face peril from a variety of sources. These are just a few 
box is cleared, healing time for the next-rightmost of them.
box starts. Disease

•	 Bashing: Clear bashing damage after 15 minutes of Fae contagions and mundane diseases alike can ex-
in-game time. pose changelings to sickness.

•	 Lethal: Clear lethal damage after two days of in- Disease Basics
game time. •	 Tilt: In action scenes, sick characters suffer the 

•	 Aggravated: Clear aggravated damage after a week Sick Tilt (p. 331).
of in-game time. •	 Moderate Disease: Outside action scenes, moder-
Example: Juliet escapes the scuffle with the briarwolf ate sickness might impose a –1 or –2 penalty on 

and lays low for a while, eschewing hospitals to avoid awk- actions that require concentration or stamina.
ward questions. Her health track looks like this at the end 
of the fight: •	 Grave Disease: Outside action scenes, grave dis-

eases inflict a certain amount of damage at speci-
fied time intervals, as determined by the Story-
teller. The sick character’s player makes a reflexive 
Stamina + Resolve roll to resist; success means no 

Her rightmost wound heals first. Since it’s a bash- damage this time.
ing wound, she clears it after 15 minutes. After another 
15 minutes, her second bashing wound clears. Her lethal •	 Recovery: Most diseases simply run their course 
damage then heals over the course of the next two days. over a certain amount of time. Others require a 
Finally, her aggravated wound heals over the course of the minimum number of successful resistance rolls, re-
next week. In all, it takes a little over a week and two days quire medical intervention, or merely go into peri-
for her to recover from her injuries. odic remission as determined by the Storyteller.

Medical Care •	 Conditions: The Storyteller may represent short-
Characters can use the Medicine Skill to speed up term illnesses with Conditions and long-term ill-

healing. nesses with Persistent Conditions, which earn play-
ers Beats whenever the illness causes significant 

•	 Action: Extended and simple harm or inconvenience for the character.

188 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Poison
Whether from a poison apple or a goblin dart, poison Environment Levels

can lay even the hardiest changeling low.

Poison Basics Level Example Environs
•	 Tilt: In action scenes, poisoned characters suffer 1 Light snow, heavy storms; too 

the Poisoned Tilt (p. 331). cold to sleep safely; air pressure 
causes shortness of breath; swel-

•	 Toxicity: Outside action scenes, the Storyteller as- tering sun can cause first-degree 
signs the poison a Toxicity rating. The poisoned char- burns
acter suffers lethal damage equal to Toxicity. Mild 2 Heavy snow; cold causes 
poisons only inflict damage once. More severe poisons physical pain and potential 
may inflict damage every hour or even every turn for a hypothermia; sun quickly causes 
period of time determined by the Storyteller. first-degree burns, can cause 

second-degree burns with time; 
•	 Resistance: The poisoned character’s player rolls minor radiation poisoning

Stamina + Resolve – Toxicity every time the poi- 3 Desert exposure; heat rapidly 
son inflicts damage. Each success cancels one point causing second-degree burns; 
of damage. moderate radiation exposure

Drugs 4 Desert sandstorm, severe hurri-
cane, tornado, tsunami

Some changelings turn to alcohol or other drugs to 
push away the horrors they’ve survived, and many fae 
creatures are fond of enchanted narcotics.

Drug Basics Source Damage
•	 Tilt: In action scenes, drugged characters suffer Minor; wall socket 4B

the Drugged Tilt (p. 328). Major; protective fence 6B

•	 Effects: Drugs can have a wide variety of effects, Severe; junction box 8B
ranging from dice penalties to imposing Condi- Fatal; main line feed/subway rail 10B
tions. Most drugs last for a scene, but some burn 
through a character’s system more rapidly or linger Electricity Basics
for more time. •	 Damage per Turn: Electricity inflicts damage ev-

•	 Resistance: A drugged character can shake off the ery turn if the current is continuous.
effects temporarily by succeeding on a reflexive •	 Breaking Away: Characters in contact with a con-
Stamina + Resolve roll. Depending on the potency tinuous electrical current must succeed on a reflex-
of the drug, this roll might be required every hour, ive Strength roll to pull away.
scene, or even turn.

•	 No Armor: Worn armor provides no protection 
Overdose against electrocution.

•	 Poison: Characters who overdose on drugs treat 
the drug like a poison, with a Toxicity somewhere Extreme  
between 3 and 7. The drug inflicts damage once Environments
per hour.

The human body is not built to withstand extreme 
•	 Duration: The overdose typically runs its course heat, cold, air pressure, and other harsh weather. Extreme 

after (8 – Stamina) hours, though the Storyteller environments are rated with a level from 1 to 4, depend-
may adjust that. ing on the severity of the environment. While characters 

are exposed to these conditions, they suffer the level of 
Electricity the environment as a dice penalty to all actions. After 

a number of hours equal to the character’s Stamina, he 
Electric shocks inflict damage based on the strength takes bashing damage equal to the environment’s level 

of the current. once per hour. In the case of a Level 3 exposure, the 

Sources of Harm 189



damage is lethal instead of bashing. Level 4 environments Size of Fire Damage
cause lethal damage each turn after a number of turns 
equal to the character’s Stamina. Torch 1

Any damage caused by levels 2-4 exposure leaves Bonfire 2
lasting marks, scars, and tissue damage. Damage caused Inferno 3
by extreme environments cannot heal until the character 
is back in a safe environment. Damage 

Extreme Environment Basics Heat of Fire Modifier

•	 Penalty: Characters suffer a penalty to all actions Candle (first-degree burns) —
equal to the environment’s level. Torch (second-degree burns) +1

•	 Level 1-3 Damage: After (Stamina) hours of ex- Bunsen burner (third-degree burns) +2

posure to level 1-3 environments, characters suffer Chemical fire/molten metal +3
damage equal to the environment’s level for every 
hour. At levels 1-2, the damage is bashing. At level Fire Basics
3, it’s lethal. •	 Combustion: Exposure to fire for longer than a 

turn ignites anything combustible on the charac-
•	 Level 4 Damage: After (Stamina) turns of expo- ter; he continues to take full damage even after 

sure to level 4 environments, characters suffer 4 escaping the source of the flame.
lethal damage every turn.

•	 Firefighting: Fighting a fire typically requires an 
•	 No Healing: Characters cannot heal damage from instant action but no roll. At the Storyteller’s dis-

extreme environments until they are no longer in cretion, an action might immediately put out the 
an extreme environment. fire (e.g. diving into water) or reduce its size by one 

level (e.g. stop, drop, and roll).
Falling

Changelings can find themselves leaping from great •	 Armor: Most armor can block its general rating 
heights to avoid danger, or falling from cloud houses with- in fire damage automatically for a number of turns 
out the benefit of a beanstalk. equal to that rating.

Falling Basics •	 Uncontrolled Blaze: If an area containing flam-
mable objects is set on fire, it may acquire the In-

•	 Damage: Falls of less than 30 yards/meters inflict ferno Environmental Tilt (p. 330).
one point of bashing damage per three yards/me-
ters fallen. Falls of 30 yards/meters or more inflict 
10 lethal damage. Teamwork

When two or more characters work together on a 
•	 Armor: At the Storyteller’s discretion, armor may re- single action of any kind, one person takes the lead. He’s 

duce damage from falls of less than 30 yards/meters. the primary actor, and his player assembles his dice pool 
as normal. Anyone assisting him is a secondary actor, and 

•	 Reduced Damage: If there’s a reasonable way for rolls the same pool before the primary actor does.
a character to slow her fall, she makes a reflexive 
Dexterity + Athletics roll. Each success reduces Secondary Actor Roll Results
damage from a fall of less than 30 yards/meters by Success: +1 die to the primary actor’s roll for each suc-
one point. cess earned, cumulative for each secondary actor’s success.

•	 Soft Landing: Landing in water or snow, or on an- Exceptional Success: As success.
other soft surface, may automatically reduce dam- Failure: Primary actor receives no bonus dice.
age from falls of less than 30 yards/meters at the Dramatic Failure: As failure, and −4 dice to the 
Storyteller’s discretion. primary actor’s roll, cumulative for each secondary actor’s 

dramatic failure. Primary actor must continue.
Fire The primary actor’s roll results are as normal for the 

Fire automatically inflicts lethal damage per turn of action the group undertakes.
exposure (no attack roll is required). The damage inflict- More participants don’t always mean better results, 
ed depends on both the size and intensity of the flames. however. Every action has a point of diminishing returns 

190 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



at which too many cooks are in the kitchen. This number 
usually ranges from three to six, depending on the action, 
at the Storyteller’s discretion. Excess participants’ rolls Object Traits
grant no bonuses to the primary actor’s pool, and may 
levy penalties instead at the Storyteller’s discretion. Durability Material

Objects 1 Wood, hard plastic, thick 
glass

Objects such as lead pipes, walls, and cars have three 2 Stone, aluminum
traits: Durability, Size, and Structure. Mostly, these relate 
to how easy the object is to destroy. 3 Steel, iron

Object Traits +1 per reinforced layer

•	 Durability: How hard the object is to damage. Size Object
Subtract Durability from any damage inflicted on 
the object. Durability has no effect against attacks 1 Pistol
that inflict aggravated damage. 2 Crowbar, sawn-off shotgun

•	 Size: How large the object is. Objects smaller than 3 Assault rifle
Size 1 can fit entirely in a person’s palm. 5 Door

•	 Structure: An object’s Structure equals its Dura- 10 Sports car
bility + Size. 15 SUV

Damaging Objects
•	 Damage: Each point of damage removes a point 

of Structure. Objects do not differentiate between or Mantle to take it out on loan from the freehold’s 
bashing and lethal damage. stockpile).

•	 Reduced Functionality: Once it’s taken more •	 Size, Durability, Structure: See above.
damage than its Durability, anyone using the ob-
ject suffers a −1 die penalty. •	 Dice Bonus: The bonus the equipment adds to rel-

evant actions.
•	 Destruction: When an object’s Structure hits 0, it 

is destroyed. •	 Effect: Any special rules that apply to using the 
equipment.

•	 Repair: See p. 197 for rules on how to repair dam-
aged objects. See p. 196 for rules on how Changeling characters 

can build their own equipment.
Equipment Social  

Equipment, tools, and technology help to solve prob-
lems. Having the right tool for the job can mean the dif- Maneuvering
ference between life and death — or in Changeling: The A Fairest persuades a giant to act recklessly out of 
Lost, the difference between life and a fate worse than pride. A Wizened brings a goblin inventor an apple each 
death. You can find a list of sample equipment in Appen- day, wooing him to take them on as an apprentice. A 
dix 2: Equipment, starting on p. 322. Beast begs the Winter King to join a battle against the 

Equipment is divided up by the Skills it typically as- True Fae despite his Court’s fear. All of these scenes are 
sists with. Mental equipment typically assists with Mental rich with potential drama and complexity, which might 
Skills, for example. be undercut if they’re resolved in a single throw of the 

dice. When you want to spotlight interpersonal relation-
Equipment Traits ships and conflicts solved without violence, Social ma-

•	 Availability: The minimum level of a relevant trait neuvering is the system to use.
a character must have to acquire the equipment In a Social maneuver, you start by stating your char-
with a single roll. Resources is the most often used acter’s goal. Once you and the Storyteller agree that the 
trait, but other Social Merits or Skills may work at goal is reasonable, you have to overcome the other person’s 
the Storyteller’s discretion (e.g. Larceny to steal it, 

Social Maneuvering 191



Calculating Doors

Social Maneuvering •	 Baseline: The subject starts with Doors equal to 

and Consent the lower of their Resolve or Composure.

This system is designed to allow characters •	 Breaking Point: If the stated goal would be a 
to manipulate or convince other characters breaking point (p. 104) for the subject, and the sub-
to perform favors or undertake actions, but it ject is aware of that fact, add two Doors.
does raise the question: Is one character dic-
tating another’s actions, and how much of that •	 Aspiration: If the stated goal is in opposition to 
should be allowed in a roleplaying game? one of the subject’s Aspirations, and the subject is 
Or, put a different way, can one character aware of that fact, add one Door. If the goal would 
seduce another with this system? clearly help the subject achieve an Aspiration, re-

move one Door.
We recommend reserving this system for use 
by player-controlled characters on Storyteller •	 Virtue: If the stated goal is in opposition to the 
characters rather than on other players’ charac- subject’s Virtue, and the subject is aware of that 
ters. If one player’s character wants to seduce, fact, add one Door.
persuade, convince, or intimidate another, 
leave it up to roleplaying and let players make •	 Adding Doors: If things change such that the 
their own decisions about what their characters Breaking Point, Aspiration, or Virtue rules above 
do, unless the players agree to involve dice. apply during the Social maneuver, add Doors to 

the remaining total (two for Breaking Point, one 
each for Aspiration or Virtue). If your character 
goes back on her word during the maneuver, add 

resistance by taking actions that make them more likely to two Doors.
agree to your terms. Successful actions open Doors (as in, 
“the door is open for further discussion,” not literal doors). Impression

How often you can try to open Doors depends on The Storyteller sets the first impression based on any 
the impression your character makes — the more they like past history between the characters, the circumstances of 
you, the more often you can try to sway them. their meeting, the nature of the favor being asked (if the 
Goals acting character is asking right up front — sometimes it’s 

a better idea not to lead off with what you want!) and 
When using Social maneuvering, the first step is to any other factors she deems relevant. Most interactions 

declare your character’s intended goal. This is as simple default to an average impression, which makes the ma-
as stating what you want the subject to do and how your neuver a long, drawn-out process. Your character can take 
character is going about making it happen. You need only steps to improve that: meeting the subject at their favorite 
announce the initial stages, as the effort will likely occur restaurant, wearing their favorite perfume, and so on. The 
over multiple rolls, reflecting different actions. Storyteller is the final arbiter of whether any particular 

At this point, the Storyteller determines whether action raises the impression level, but she should be open 
the goal is reasonable. A character might, with time and to working with you to develop a plan.
proper tactics, convince a rich person to give him a large Impression level determines how frequently you’re 
sum of money. He probably isn’t going to convince the allowed to roll to open the subject’s Doors — the more 
wealthy individual to abandon all of his wealth to the they like your character, the more often you can roll. If 
character, though it might be possible to get him to name the impression is too hostile, you might not be able to 
the character as heir, at which point the character can set roll at all.
about speeding up the inheritance process.

Impression Time per Roll
Doors Perfect One turn

Once you’ve declared your character’s goal, the next Excellent One hour
step is to determine the scope of the challenge. We rep-
resent this with “Doors,” which reflect a character’s resis- Good One day

tance to coercion: her social walls, hir skepticism, their Average One week
mistrust, or just his hesitance toward intimacy. It’s ab- Hostile Cannot roll
stract and means different things in every given case. 

192 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Adjusting Impression
•	 Favorable Circumstances: A comfortable envi-

ronment, appealing clothing, or similar pleasant 
situations can raise a hostile impression to average, 
or an average impression to good.

•	 Actions: Success on an appropriate action, like a Wits 
+ Socialize action to create the ideal guest list for a par-
ty, can raise an average or good impression to excellent.

•	 Soft Leverage: A bribe, gift, or offer of service or 
payment raises the impression level one step if the 
subject accepts the offer.

•	 Vice Leverage: An offer that indulges the subject’s 
Vice (or aligns with her Thread, or equivalent 
trait) raises the impression level one step if the sub-
ject accepts the offer.

Opening Doors
At each interval, you may make a roll to open Doors and 

move closer to your character’s goal. The roll might be differ-
ent each time, depending on the character’s tactics. Some of 
the rolls might not even be Social. For example, if your char-
acter is trying to win someone’s favor, fixing his computer 
with an Intelligence + Computer roll could open a Door. 

As Storyteller, be creative in selecting dice pools. 
Change them up with each step to keep the interactions dy-
namic. Similarly, consider contested and resisted rolls. Most 
resisted actions or contested rolls use either Resolve or Com-
posure, or a combination of the two, but don’t let that stand 
as a limit. Contested rolls don’t necessarily require a Resis-
tance trait. For example, Wits might be used to notice a lie, 
Strength to help a character stand up to threats, or Presence 
to protect and maintain one’s reputation at a soiree. 

Roll Results
Success: Open one Door.
Exceptional Success: As success, and open an ad-

ditional Door.
Failure: Open no Doors. Subsequent actions as part 

of the social maneuver suffer a cumulative one-die pen-
alty. The Storyteller may choose to lower the impression 
level by one step; if she does so, take a Beat.

Dramatic Failure: The social maneuver fails utterly. No 
further rolls can be made. Any attempt to achieve the same 
goal must start from scratch, likely with a worse impression.

Resolution
The outcome of a Social maneuver is either success 

or failure. Don’t confuse this with the success or failure 
of any particular action that’s part of a Social maneuver; 
here we’re talking about the whole thing.

Social Maneuvering 193



Investigation
Player vs. Player When you want an investigation to play a large role 

Resolution in the tale, with entire scenes, chapters, or even stories 
dedicated to a single mystery, you can use this system 

If you allow players’ characters to be the rather than boiling it down to a single action. Characters 
targets of Social maneuvering, resolve the uncover Clues they can use to benefit later actions the in-
resolution stage as a negotiation with two vestigation enables — for instance, learning that the King 
possible outcomes. The subject chooses to of the Sky must never touch the water can be used to lure 
abide by the desired goal or offers a benefi- him into an ambush at a mountain spring.
cial alternative. 

Investigation Basics
Go with the Flow

•	 No Hard Answers: The Storyteller doesn’t need to 
If the character does as requested, and 
abides by the intended goal, his player takes come up with all the potential Clues and answers 
a Beat (p. 94). ahead of time. Letting the players fill some of them 

in themselves as they succeed in finding Clues gets 
Offer an Alternative them invested in the outcome and creates “a-ha!” 
If the subject’s player chooses, he may offer moments. If players put Clues together to reach 
an alternative that’s beneficial to the initiator, conclusions that don’t match the outcome the Sto-
and the initiator’s player can impose a Condi- ryteller had in mind, she can consider changing it 
tion (p. 181) on his character to reflect that to match.
alternative. This offer exists between players; it 
does not need to occur within the fiction of the •	 No Binary Rolls: Failing to find information cru-
game, though it can. The alternative must be cial to the characters’ progress when players fail 
truly beneficial and not a twist of intent. The rolls only slows the game down to no satisfying end. 
Storyteller adjudicates. Instead, the Storyteller should raise the stakes or 

introduce complications when a roll fails. Failure 
The initiator’s player chooses a Condition doesn’t mean the players didn’t find a Clue — in-
to impose on the subject. It must make sense 
within the context of the scenario. stead, it means they miss out on extra benefits suc-

cess would have afforded them and must adjust to 
new challenges.

•	 Frame the Action: The Storyteller can intersperse 
Success Clue-finding actions with other events in the story 
Once your character has opened all the Doors in her to keep the momentum going and give players op-

path, the subject must act. Storyteller characters abide by portunity to choose which set of heightening stakes 
the intended goal and follow through as stated. How they to address first.
feel afterwards might vary, but they will always do what 
you and the Storyteller agreed on. •	 Clues: Clues are a specialized type of equipment that 

represent objects, facts, and deductions. They have 
Failure elements that players can spend for benefits, either 
A Social maneuvering attempt can fail utterly under to solve a particular mystery or to stockpile for other 

the following circumstances: uses: leverage in Social maneuvering, proof of super-
natural influences in someone’s life, etc.

•	 Dramatic Failure: The player rolls a dramatic fail-
ure on an attempt to open a Door. Scope

•	 Deception: The target realizes the character is lying First, the players declare a goal to accomplish via 
to him or manipulating him. This does not apply if investigation. Decide how many total Clues the charac-
the target is aware the character is trying to talk him ters need to uncover to achieve their goal. For smaller-
into something; only if he feels betrayed or conned. scope investigations, this usually falls between one and 

five Clues. For broad investigations spread out across the 
•	 Bad Impressions: The impression level reaches chronicle, the total should equal at least half the number 

“hostile” and remains so for the rest of the current of planned chapters, and can range up to twice the num-
story. The character can try again during the next ber of planned chapters in a strongly investigation-focused 
story. chronicle.

194 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Interval Uncovering  
Each roll to find a Clue is an instant action, but takes the Truth

some amount of time based on the kind of action the play- Players don’t need to roll to put their Clues together 
ers take. The Storyteller can add challenges and obstacles once the investigation is over. Once they accumulate the 
to these attempts to turn simple die rolls into interesting requisite number of Clues specified by the investigation’s 
scenes of their own. If they perform particularly well in scope, the characters learn the truth.
these efforts, the Storyteller can offer bonuses to the roll to 
uncover the Clue. Players may choose to uncover the truth before 

they’ve accumulated enough Clues, as long as they have 
Uncovering Clues at least one that isn’t tainted. If they do, they still learn 

the truth, but the Storyteller introduces one major com-
Once the characters get where they need to be, they plication per Clue they fall short.

roll to uncover the Clue.
Action: Instant Chases
Dice Pool: Varies. Players can use any pool that A changeling may find herself racing her peers to 

matches the action they take to uncover the Clue. The earn the favor of Mother Wind, or running for her life 
Investigation Skill is appropriate to case a scene or search when a Huntsman calls at midnight. In most action 
through files and evidence, while other Mental Skills can scenes, a character’s Speed trait determines how much 
be used to perform research, experiments, or autopsies. she can move. This means that generally, you can figure 

The pool suffers a cumulative one-die penalty each time out who is faster without dice. The following rules let you 
the same Skill is used again in an investigation. However, if turn the chase into the focus of the scene instead, adding 
characters use teamwork to uncover Clues, only the primary excitement and drama.
actor suffers this penalty, and only his roll contributes to fur-
ther such penalties in the same investigation. Chase Basics

Roll Results •	 Set the Terms: By default, each party requires five 
total successes to prevail. Apply modifiers to this 

Success: Clue is uncovered, with one element plus total as follows.
one more if the character has 4 or more dots or a Spe-
cialty in the relevant Skill; each Specialty or Skill can •	 Determine the Edge: Whoever has better manipu-
only contribute to extra elements once per character per lated the environment, terrain, and circumstances 
investigation. to his advantage based on the ever-changing situ-

Exceptional Success: As success, and the Clue gains ation gains the Edge, not counting circumstances 
one bonus element; character gains a beneficial Condition. listed above to modify required successes. If the 

Failure: Clue is uncovered but incomplete: Its ele- character with the Edge isn’t obvious, make a 
ments may only be used to uncover other Clues. contested roll for each involved character using a 

relevant pool determined by the player, with Sto-
Dramatic Failure: Clue is uncovered but tainted. Each ryteller permission. Relevant Skills could include 

accumulated tainted Clue forces the player to ignore one Athletics, Streetwise, Survival, etc. If the context 
success rolled on any future actions pertaining to the investi- of the scene changes significantly, re-determine 
gation; these are cumulative, and all apply to each such roll. who has the Edge.
The Storyteller may impose a negative Condition as well.

•	 Turns: Each turn represents roughly 30 seconds 
Clue Elements to a minute of chase time. The character with the 

Players can spend Clue elements to add a one-die bo- Edge rolls first. If she accumulates the requisite to-
nus per element to any roll pertaining to the investiga- tal successes before others have a chance to roll, 
tion, including but not limited to rolls to uncover more she wins immediately.
Clues. A player can only spend elements from one Clue 
at a time, or Clues equal to her character’s Investigation Pursuit and Evasion
dots, whichever is higher. She may spend any number of Both pursuit and evasion use the same chase action.
elements at a time from a single Clue.

Action: Instant
Elements from tainted Clues impose a two-die penal-

ty when spent instead of a bonus; however, this is the only Dice Pool: Determined each turn by the side with 
way to get rid of tainted Clues, since once all its elements the Edge, based on the current situation. You can use 
are spent, it sheds its tainted nature. a different pool, but unless you have the Edge, you lose 

the 10-again quality on your roll and suffer a cumulative 

Chases 195



Other Kinds of Chases
Chase Modifiers The chase system may also be used to represent other 

kinds of contests that fall outside the immediate timing 
of an action scene, such as tracking a Huntsman through 

Circumstance Modifier the woods by her captive’s diamond tears, or as an alterna-
Opponent’s Speed is higher +1 tive to the Social maneuvering system (p. 191) to finesse 
than yours another character into a particular position or behavior.
Opponent’s Speed is twice +3
yours Building Equipment
Opponent’s Speed is at least +5 While changelings can gain access to equipment 
10 times yours of all kinds through purchase, borrowing, blackmail, or 
Initiative modifier is higher −1 theft, some prefer (or are forced) to make it themselves. If 
than opponent’s it would offer a bonus to an action, or would make actions 

possible that were previously not, it can be considered 
Initiative modifier is twice the −2
opponent’s “equipment,” and you can build it. 

Initiative modifier is at least −3 Equipment Types
three times the opponent’s •	 Physical Objects: the most common type. Items 
Your character knows the −1 listed in the Appendix (p. 322) are physical objects, 
territory somewhat as are weapons and armor. Creative works also fall 
Your character knows the −3 into this category.
territory intimately •	 Organizations: small groups of people assembled 
Your Size is lower than your −1 to address a particular need, like a cadre of body-
opponent’s guards or research assistants. Organizations built 
Opponent immune to fatigue +2 as equipment disband after one chapter unless pur-

chased as Merits afterward.
Actively dangerous +1 to +3, 
environment Storyteller’s •	 Repositories: collections of research materials and 

discretion information sources on a particular topic, like a li-
Opponent starts with one turn +1 brary of books, a database, or an assortment of se-
lead curity footage. This reflects gathering materials for 
Opponent starts with at least +2 repeated future use, not benefiting from an exist-
two turns’ lead ing source. Repositories linger; if you purchase the 

Library Merit (p. 123) for a repository your charac-
ter built, it stacks with the equipment bonus, to a 
maximum of +5.

one-die penalty that increases each turn you don’t have •	 Plans: abstracted plans that orchestrate complex 
the Edge and use the wrong pool. These turns don’t have encounters with specific goals involving multiple 
to be consecutive. people, like heists or rescues. A plan grants its bo-

Roll Results nus to all participants, but ceases to exist when the 
endeavor succeeds or definitively fails.

Success: You overcome the immediate challenge and 
make headway. Add rolled successes to your running total. •	 Mystical Equipment: anything that carries minor 

Exceptional Success: As success, and inflict the turn’s supernatural potency, such as a circle of protection 
terms of failure upon your opponent regardless of his roll. using salt and bone, a protective amulet, or a fae 

Failure: Determined each turn by the side with the trap made of iron.
Edge, before dice are rolled. Choose from among the fol- Build Equipment Basics
lowing: lose one accumulated success from your total, suf-
fer two points of bashing damage or one point of lethal, or •	 Scope: Build Equipment actions never take longer 
suffer an appropriate Tilt. than the time between one scene and the next. If it 

Dramatic Failure: As failure, and the Storyteller can’t reasonably be built in a few hours or less, the 
may impose a negative Condition as well. character needs to acquire it another way.

196 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



•	 When to Roll: If the character has plenty of time, Dramatic Failure: You fail outright and suffer a con-
isn’t under any duress, and has dots in the relevant sequence at the Storyteller’s discretion, such as taking 
Skill equal to the equipment bonus a standard ex- damage from an explosive reaction, suffering a Condition 
ample would provide, don’t roll. If the character is like Leveraged or Embarrassing Secret, or leading a threat 
under pressure or in danger, roll. Likewise, if she’s directly to your location.
trying to build something beyond her casual exper-
tise — i.e., something with an equipment bonus Jury Rigging
greater than her dots in the relevant Skill, some- Sometimes, a character needs to build equipment 
thing with higher traits than the standard exam- without time for preparation or even much thought. Jury 
ple, or something the Storyteller determines is too rigging always takes place in action scene timing.
complex — roll.

Action: Instant; takes one turn
•	 Built-In Penalty: The roll always suffers a penalty Dice Pool: Same as above. The Storyteller may rule 

equal to the intended equipment bonus. Each other that some equipment is too complex to be Jury Rigged.
intended benefit, like a new function, an increased 
trait, or access to a resource, counts as a one-die bo- Roll Results
nus for this purpose, as well as to determine whether Success: You build the equipment, but it carries the 
to roll in the first place. Weapons impose a penalty Fragile or Volatile Condition.
equal to their weapon modifier; armor imposes a Exceptional Success: You build the equipment.
penalty equal to its highest armor rating (general Failure: As dramatic failure.
or ballistic). Penalties can’t exceed −5.

Dramatic Failure: As the usual Build Equipment action.
•	 Requirements: The Storyteller may require the 

use of Resources, Contacts, or other Merits, or a Repair, Modifications, 
separate research action, to reflect extra effort nec- and Upgrades
essary before you can roll. This should only apply A character may want to fix or alter a piece of equip-
to enhance the drama of the story or introduce in- ment that already exists. These actions usually only apply 
teresting plot elements to the action. to physical objects, though exceptions are possible.

•	 Time: ranges from a few minutes to a few hours, These rolls use the normal Build Equipment action, 
but the important factors are whether you finish with the following exceptions:
before something else happens, and what else hap- Repair/Modification/Upgrade Basics
pens in the meantime.

•	 Built-In Penalty: equals the difference between the 
During an action scene, a Build Equipment action object’s current state and the bonus or benefits the 

takes a number of turns equal to the built-in penalty; the player wants to add. Broken objects are considered 
Storyteller may rule that something can’t be built during to have an equipment bonus of 0. Partially func-
an action scene. tional objects may have a bonus only one or two 

Build Equipment Action dice lower than their usual bonus. For instance, if 
Action: Instant a computer would normally grant a +2 to research 

rolls but won’t start and is therefore currently at a 
Dice Pool: Determined by the type of equipment. 0, the roll to repair it would suffer a −2.

Wits + Crafts for physical objects, or Wits + Expression 
for creative works; Presence or Manipulation + Socialize •	 Increased Traits/New Functions: treat each modi-
or Streetwise for organizations; Intelligence + Academics fication or upgrade as a +1 equivalent. You can re-
for repositories; Wits + Occult for mystical equipment; place one function with another at no penalty — for 
Wits + Composure for plans. The Storyteller or player instance, reversing the function of a walkie talkie to 
can suggest alternatives if appropriate. cause interference instead of receiving signals.

Roll Results
Success: You build the equipment. Taking Your Time
Exceptional Success: As success, and add one equip- You may build equipment as an extended action in-

ment bonus die or other benefit; bonuses still may not ex- stead, taking no built-in penalty to any of the rolls. In-
ceed +5. stead, the target number of required successes equals 

Failure: You build the equipment, but it carries the the total intended bonus and benefits of the equip-
Fragile (p. 339) or Volatile (p. 345) Condition. ment +1. Typically, players do this to avoid taking 

Building Equipment 197



large penalties for complex equipment, or when they clever tricks, worthy of retelling. The Hedge is a reflection 
have small dice pools to begin with and don’t want to of what’s in a traveler’s heart of hearts, too, a hazy amal-
risk a chance die. The Storyteller determines the time be- gam of the familiar and the unknown.
tween rolls as usual. Overall success and failure work as It is a literal hedge, well-trimmed and manicured in 
normal for the Build Equipment action. some parts, wild and free in some. It is coils of barbed 

The Storyteller may also allow a player to build wire running through blasted urban hellscapes where 
equipment that normally lies beyond the scope of this everything is crumbling alleyways and abandoned park-
system, such as a car or a business, with an extended ing lots, and it is endless wastes of snow that yield only 
action. In this case, the time between rolls and total suc- to travelers who choose the right direction. And it is 
cesses required should match the effort involved. Build- romantic gardens, offering succulent bounties and vivid 
ing a car may take a week between rolls and require 15 blooms for meeting a long-dead lover, and it is dreamy 
total successes, for example. Storytellers should keep in bazaars where a ha’penny and a promise buys a subway 
mind, however, that it’s usually much easier to acquire ticket back to childhood, for those willing to haggle. 
such equipment in other ways, like stealing or purchas- Here, hobgoblins dwell in hollowed-out apples and 
ing a car, or using Social maneuvering to convince a Huntsmen prowl paths cobbled with ivy-grown marble, 
potential business partner to take the bait. As a result, and even the occasional liege of Arcadia strolls down 
building this kind of equipment with extended actions the byways.
should only be done if the player really wants to make it 
from scratch. Stepping Through
The H The Lost can enter the Hedge through any portal 

edge (p. 109), replacing the mundane world beyond with a 
The Hedge is full of both pain and joy. It is bram- darkly verdant elsewhere and turning that door into a 

bles and Thorns and horrible things lurking in the dormant Hedgeway, or gate into the Hedge. They can 
shadows; it is birthdays and music and a kiss from an exit the same way. Humans can only enter and exit 
ethereal stranger you remember from somewhere. It is through specific rituals, at Hedgeways that a fae being 
beautiful and terrible, claustrophobic yet neverending. has already opened previously. Every gate has a Key, a 
The Hedge is a million ecstatic things, and you can take method for opening that particular path into the Hedge. 
some of them home with you. The Hedge is a shortcut Finding a Key is far from impossible, but most humans 
between here and there, and all it will cost is a chance don’t realize it’s not a two-way affair — a door may have 
of losing yourself. The Hedge stands between Earth and a separate ritual for returning, or might not have a coun-
Arcadia, protecting the mortal world from the True Fae terpart on the other side at all. Escaping means dealing 
and their machinations — and vice versa, because the with the denizens of the Hedge, or finding a changeling 
Gentry must take on the aspects of soil and sea to walk to rescue them.
among humans. For a number of turns after a changeling opens a 

Every Lost’s durance ends with an escape, and the Hedgeway equal to her Wyrd, the gate remains, only then 
escape always leads through the Hedge. Here, the newly to fade away once more. After a gateway has been used, 
made Lost meets the Thorns, and the piece of his soul it remains a dormant Hedgeway until the seasons change. 
ripped from him and left dangling like a lost shoe from During that time, other Lost do not need to spend Glam-
a power line is his Icon. But the association the Hedge our to open the passageway, but once the season is up, they 
and the Thorns have with a changeling’s durance, and must establish the gateway again. A dormant Hedgeway 
the pain he suffered to win his freedom, do not mean the hides behind the Mask just as a fae creature does (p. 83).
Thorns limit themselves to pricking escaping pets, or that A changeling can find a dormant Hedgeway using 
no one enters the Hedge on other business. Some beings her kenning (p. 107), or tokens and Contracts that iden-
even dwell there, living their own lives of wonder and en- tify supernatural phenomena.
chantment, peddling magic to stay one step ahead of the Humans cannot open a Hedgeway by touch — the 
darkness between the cracks. world they see is solid and the Mask is reality. To enter the 

The Hedge has many things worth the journey. It Hedge, they need to find another way in, and a few exist:
has Goblin Markets and goblin fruit, Hollows in which a 
changeling can find peace from the mortal world to which •	 Following Others: Humans can pass through a 
he no longer wholly belongs, and trods that lead to distant Hedge gate that’s already open without issue. As 
places faster than any mundane road. Far from the world a changeling’s Mask falls away when she steps 
of bills and petty corruption, the problems the Hedge pos- through a Hedgeway, many humans who see one 
es feel far more primal and seductive. They’re problems a enter the Hedge do choose to follow, out of curios-
changeling can face and overcome with adventures and ity if nothing else.

198 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



•	 Keys: Legends such as fairy circles, alien abduc-
tions, or the enthralled woodsman following the 
beautiful hulder into the land of the Fair Folk can Other Beings Called 
become Keys when a human heart holds the tales to the Hedge
dear. These stories can play out when a human soul 
in the right place believes they should, triggered Characters who don’t have Vices may still 
into existence by this belief. It requires a success- prove tempting enough prey for the Hedge 
ful Resolve + Composure roll to open a Hedgeway to accost. Vampires, Remade, Prometheans — 
this way, but the belief must come first. these are harder for the Wyrd to read, provid-

ing no easy hook to snare them. However, 
	 Keys also exist on their own. They can be physical the Storyteller may decide that the Hedge 

objects, such as a turtle shell carved with the right can call these beings in other ways, playing 
sigils or the broken-off star of an old Mercedes. to their particular weaknesses and wants. 
They can be specific songs sung at certain times Other supernatural beings who do have Vices 
of day, or a particular confluence of events, or the can fall for the Hedge’s tricks just as easily as 
presence of red-haired twins — nearly anything mortals.
can open a Hedge gate, but the would-be traveler 
must find out what each gate’s Key is separately. 
A curious seeker can take an extended research 
action to do so, with access to the right kinds of Common Modifiers
information sources, or can learn about it from a Has visited the Hedge +1 per previous visit, to a 
fae who knows. A few Keys see steady use, by indi- before maximum of +3
viduals or groups.

Current Willpower is 8 or +1
•	 Vice: Any time a human indulges her Vice (p. 174) higher

near a Hedgeway, her player may roll to resist the Current Willpower is 3 or −1
subconscious tug of the Hedge. She may waive this lower
roll instead, resulting in the usual failure effects, 
below. Has Occult 2+ or a −1

supernatural Merit
Action: Reflexive Virtue also supports −1
Dice Pool: Wits + Composure entering
Roll Results An Aspiration supports −2
Success: Temptation flares, but the character resists. entering

She remains unaware of the Hedgeway, save only for a Has lost friends or family −2
slight feeling of relief and disappointment deep down in mysteriously
her subconscious.

Hedgeways exist wholly inside the Hedge, too, cor-
Exceptional Success: In a blurry flash of sepia vision, doning off some areas from the rest. The Gate of Horn 

the character sees her future as the Hedge would have (p. 217) that separates the Dreaming Roads from the 
shaped it, and becomes aware that a path to somewhere else Hedge proper is one example; the myriad hidden en-
beckons her — and that she has escaped a doom today. trances to mirror space are another. Finding and stepping 

Failure: The Hedgeway opens, presenting a tempta- through these gates works just the same way as above.
tion that appeals to the character’s Vice as above. She 
may answer the call or not; if she does, she gains another Clarity and Mien
Willpower point for fulfilling her Vice again, beyond the For a changeling, the Hedge is the borderlands between 
normal limit of one per scene, and her player takes a Beat. the two worlds to which she belongs, and it resonates with her 
The gateway slams shut behind the character once she true nature. Here more than anywhere, she must face herself 
passes through. and her past, and so the Hedge scours the illusions away and 

Dramatic Failure: The Hedge calls, and the charac- the truth of what she is becomes visible for all to see: Fae be-
ter answers. The gate opens before her, and inside she sees ings and objects have no Mask inside the Hedge. At the same 
her heart’s desire made manifest. The pull is such that time, the Hedge can be a relief — in the mortal world, people 
she need not even approach it; the Hedgeway reaches out try to tell her faeries don’t exist, and in Arcadia the Gentry 
and envelops her immediately, closing behind her. The try to rewrite her to match their whims. But the Hedge takes 
object of her desire may turn out to be an illusion. When her and her experiences as they are. Here, everything is as 
it doesn’t, the story turns darker still. real as she makes it, or as ephemeral as she wants it to be.

The Hedge 199



A changeling’s player reduces the dice pool for all The Hedge shapes itself around a traveler according 
Clarity attacks by one inside the Hedge unless something to a few factors: what’s nearby on the other side, in the 
within the Hedge itself caused it, such as abrupt scenery mortal world; what has been in a particular place before; 
shifts or a hobgoblin terrorizing her. the traveler’s own needs, fears, and feelings, and those of 

others around him; and the strength of a traveler’s Wyrd. 
Hollows The first two factors are up to the Storyteller. Each place 

A Hollow is a sanctuary, created through the Lost’s in the Hedge should have its own personality, and while 
fae nature and intent or discovered after driving off the things shift often, returning to the same place and recog-
competition, and shaped into a desired form. Hollows nizing it as such works unless a character has deliberately 
are relatively safe, but nothing is completely so. Many changed it drastically.
things would dearly love to break a Hollow open like an To do anything other than wander aimlessly, charac-
egg and scoop out the innards, Lost and all. Huntsmen ters must make navigation rolls inside the Hedge. They 
know well the tricks a changeling can use to ward off in- begin by stating a goal, which could be a specific loca-
truders, and sometimes they just wait outside, patiently, tion — “I want to take a shortcut to San Francisco” or “I 
letting their heralds whisper through the cracks until want to find the nearest Goblin Market” — or a more gen-
the changeling emerges. After all, the renegade has to eral objective, like “I want to find an Icon” or “I want to 
come out eventually. get away from this loyalist.” Navigation inside the Hedge 

The advantages of claiming a Hollow can be found works just like a chase, using the rules on p. 195. Even 
under the Hollow Merit, on p. 116. if the characters are unopposed, the Hedge itself works 

as an “opponent,” representing the myriad dangers and 
Traveling the Hedge temptations that face all travelers there.

In the Hedge, a traveler can see echoes of human The characters must engage in a new chase whenever 
world analogues. If she wanders the Hedge of Detroit, they have a new goal.
she’ll see hints of buildings, cars, and factories even as Terms of the Chase
brambles cover and consume them; or perhaps the bram-
bles are busybody salesmen and surly factory supervisors, When the characters have clear opposition, such as 
all sporting long red noses and voices like shrill whistles. outrunning a Huntsman or chasing down a thieving gob-
Some objects and places directly correspond to things on lin, determine the terms of the chase as normal, but the 
the other side, especially closer to the mortal world. But Hedge itself also always counts as a “character” and has its 
more often, objects in the Hedge reflect the way the trav- own turns and dice pools. Its goal is always to lure travel-
eler thinks of them when she’s feeling fanciful or fright- ers off the path into the Thorns, or closer to Arcadia, 
ened. If she always thought the city’s skyscrapers looked and the Storyteller should determine where the charac-
like looming guardians closing in on her, they’re exactly ters end up if they lose and the Hedge wins. This doesn’t 
that here: taller and more sinister, inching closer moment preclude someone else from winning, too — just because 
by moment. If she loves riding the train and wishes trips the Hedge lured them into a cave, that doesn’t mean the 
would take longer, the tracks in the Hedge stretch out to Huntsman lost their trail.
the horizon, letting her ride as long as she likes. Places Note that getting “closer to Arcadia” is a matter of 
long gone and forgotten in the mortal world may still have relative distance. The Hedge is too fluid and psychoac-
reflections in the Hedge, if someone who enters remem- tive to have a firm sense of space — no one could map, 
bers them or has looked lovingly on their black-and-white for instance, how far a particular glade is to the gates of 
photos in old newspapers. Faerie. But routes do exist, and those routes lead through 

Trods (p. 201) are not the only paths through the places with identities of their own and along paths a trav-
Hedge, though they are the only ones that remain in eler could remember and try to repeat, assuming no one 
place. Most people who travel the Hedge do so on less shaped away the Whistling Tree Bridge and its swamp 
reliable roads, through valleys beneath a flight of witches trolls in the meantime and forced the route to change. 
mounted on giant owls, and then through a shopping mall Characters who fail a chase in the Hedge usually end up 
beset by living mannequins animated by a little girl’s long- in a place where one wrong move could open a door that 
ing for her long-dead sister. It takes a wanderer in circles leads straight to the Others.
even while moving him closer to his goal (or to the Fae), The Hedge has an effective Speed of 10, or 15 in 
and it takes him on a long, straight boulevard under trees the Thorns. On a trod, its Speed is (10 – trod rating). Its 
full of enchanted paper lanterns. Time has a strange bent Initiative modifier is equal to (10 – the highest current 
here. Every little corner, every path, every room, has a dif- Clarity among the characters), to a minimum of 0; if no 
ferent concept of time. In some places, it passes quickly. In changelings are present, its modifier is 10. The Hedge 
some, it doesn’t pass at all. begins with a base pool of five dice for all rolls (including 

200 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



to determine the Edge), regardless of the Attribute + was one), and any direct opposition failed to achieve its 
Skill the characters roll. Modify the pool based on the own. It’s possible for some characters to succeed and some 
following table: to fail, though, so sometimes changelings give up their 

victories to help out companions left behind or whisked 
Circumstance Hedge Dice Bonus away. Failure with direct opposition usually means a fight 
Characters are on a trod − (trod’s rating) or some other confrontation. Failure without direct op-
A character has at least one −1 per character position means the characters ended up somewhere the 
positive mental or emotional Hedge decided they should be, rather than wherever they 
Condition were trying to go. If the Hedge beats everybody involved, 
A new turn begins +1 (cumulative) they all end up wherever the Hedge was herding them. 

Any character who doesn’t succeed gains the Lost Condi-
A character has at least one +1 per character tion (p. 342).
negative mental or emotional 
Condition Trods
Any character’s current Clarity +1 The Hedge has paths running through it, created 
(or equivalent) is lower than and maintained by hobgoblins, Gentry, Huntsmen, and 
half its maximum the Lost themselves. They are equal parts footpath worn 
The characters have a +2 into the fabric of the place by frequent, long-term use, 
pressing time limit and deliberately laid road. Most freeholds maintain a few 

trods to useful places, and many changelings have their 
The Hedge has the Edge +2 own private garden paths. Some trods are secret, known 
Any changeling incited +2 only by a few among the Lost and the local Hedge deni-
Bedlam this scene zens. These are comparatively safe, as far as safety means 
Any changeling incited +3 anything in Arcadia’s borderlands, but a traveler is as 
Bedlam this scene with likely to see bands of hobgoblins harassing the grumpy 
exceptional success old nix living in the well as she is to see a Huntsman 
Characters are in the Thorns +3 leading a pack of harvest dogs, and some are even the pri-

vate promenades or hunting trods of a True Fae. Which 
If a single character has both a positive and a nega- are which, a trod alone does not reveal, so the Lost know 

tive relevant Condition, the bonus and penalty cancel out to keep an eye out when traveling an unfamiliar route.
for that character. The Storyteller may add or subtract 
dice due to other appropriate circumstances, as well. Trods have a dot rating from 1 to 5, representing how 

well-kept they are and how far they go, but not necessar-
The base number of successes needed for a given ily their safety. Trods have set endpoints, which could 

character to prevail in the Hedge is eight, rather than exist in the mortal world, within the Hedge, or even in 
five. Use the chart on below to determine modifiers to Arcadia. The area in between can shift from journey to 
this number, as well as the following additional modifiers: journey, though it remains roughly recognizable. The 

Target Number scenery around a trod always maintains some semblance 
Circumstance Modifier of similarity, but can change its nature — a wall of thorny 

brambles might turn into a mess of barbed wire, or a for-
The character’s Wyrd −1 per dot est of razor-sharp ice crystals, or a wall of flame, but will 
rating never be open terrain. Certain landmarks remain con-
Character accepts a −1 per point accepted, to stant, and the higher the trod’s rating, the less mutable 
point of Goblin Debt for a a maximum of −3 its terrain.
hobgoblin’s aid The Storyteller should determine a trod’s rating by 
Character is a Huntsman −1, or −2 in the Thorns starting with the table below, determining how far it 
Character’s current Clarity +1 at 3, +2 at 2, +3 at 1 reaches, and then modifying the rating up or down de-
is 3 or less pending on how well its caretakers do their jobs, or wheth-

er it even has caretakers anymore at all. A lovingly pruned 
Characters traveling a trod +1 per milestone desired trod kept by a meticulous goblin or changeling freehold 
Characters are under a +1 somewhat urgent, +2 might be worth +1 or even +2 dots, while a haphazardly 
time limit more urgent, +3 most attended trod would be worth −1 or −2, and a completely 

urgent abandoned one might be worth −3.

Resolve the chase as normal. Success means the char- A trod can bridge points in the mortal world, but it 
acters achieve their goal within the time limit (if there also bridges a number of milestones in the Hedge equal to 

The Hedge 201



its rating, in addition to its two endpoints. Thus, a two- The Thorns
dot trod passes through two relatively stable milestone For all that the Hedge is a liminal place, it reflects 
locations along its route, such as Madam Thimblestitch’s the touch of the Gentry’s all-consuming temperament 
house or the Philadelphia South Street Goblin Market. like anything of a fae nature. Those who stray too far 
Trod Rating Mundane Distance from the path find themselves among the Thorns, meta-

Bridged in Miles physical representations of the Hedge’s greed. It chews 
and swallows, cracks bone and sucks marrow, and takes 

• Less than a full mile away precious things. The Hedge is generous with its 
•• One to 10 miles misery, spreading it out and harvesting it, plucking the 
••• 10 to 100 miles apples from wanderers’ eyes and marveling at their beauty. 

The Hedge is bountiful and gracious, but for everything 
•••• 100 to 1,000 miles it gives, it takes something away. Most of all, the Hedge 
••••• Links any two places in the changes people.

world To ascribe a motivation to the Hedge is a poetic flour-
When navigating the Hedge on a trod, players don’t ish, though, to give a meaning and a pattern to something 

need to participate in chases to reach milestones or their ineluctably beyond those who experience it. Though it 
goals (as long as they don’t stray from the path to achieve has literal thorns on rosebushes and impassable fields of 
them) unless they have direct opposition or a time limit. brambles, the Hedge also has many other barbs to prick 

The Stable Trod Merit (p. 119) grants characters reg- more than just fingers, from razor-sharp icicles lining ev-
ular access to a trod. Players can define their trod’s mile- ery surface of a cave’s walls, to swarms of stinging and 
stones upon purchasing the Merit, or they may instead biting insect goblins, to forests of despair and terrors born 
introduce them in play according to what makes sense on of nightmares. Not all Thorns are thorns, and not all of 
their journeys. them are tangible threats at all. “The Thorns” is simply 

the term changelings use to describe the most dangerous 

202 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



parts of the Hedge, where it’s easier to get lost and the her to an attempted rescue or other action. Every change-
things that live there are less friendly. ling character has at least one Icon waiting for her in the 

To the Lost, the Thorns are painful and horrific, a Hedge somewhere (or in a Huntsman’s pocket), and the 
shifting jaunt through memory and fantasy that acts as a Storyteller can provide opportunities to recover as many 
constant reminder of their ordeals at the hands of their Icons as he wishes.
Keepers. For a mundane human, the effect is subtler, a Holding a changeling’s Icon gives someone access 
creeping lethargy and confusion. Her speech grows con- to parts of her mind and soul, to the long-lost memories 
fused and disjointed as she loses the ability to concen- and feelings the Thorns stole. Any fae being touching 
trate. Her environs become more nonsensical, reacting in an Icon may spend a Glamour to see a vision of one 
direct proportion to her fear and instability. Any negative of the changeling’s memories from her durance, or her 
mental or emotional Conditions a character suffers here life before it. It can grant the holder blackmail material 
play out in the environment as metaphors and dreams- and the opportunity to extort great favors from her in 
capes, usually causing breaking points. exchange for a promise to return it. It can give them 

When navigating the Thorns, tracking or seeking knowledge of forgotten trods and Hollows the change-
something or someone specific among them, or otherwise ling didn’t even realize she had, or insight into her de-
investigating them in such a way that takes a character sires and weaknesses. By succeeding on a Clash of Wills 
further from the path, dramatic failures can result in a (p. 126) against the changeling — even if she doesn’t 
wide variety of awful fates, ranging from Conditions like know about it and isn’t present — someone who sees 
Lost or Madness, to Tilts like Insensate or Insane, to the Icon’s visions gains the Informed Condition (p. 342) 
stumbling through a door into Arcadia or the den of some regarding her.
hobgoblin that hasn’t seen another soul in years. An Icon’s Worth
Icons Returning another changeling’s Icon is a major source 

All Lost must pass through the Thorns at least once, of goodwill and respect among the Lost, and may lead to 
to return to the world they left behind. They leave some- gaining Merit dots like Allies, Mantle, or Court Goodwill. 
thing of themselves behind there, and that something is Wealthy or influential changelings sometimes send others 
an Icon. It is this passage that strips away the last shreds to recover their Icons for them, whether by dint of their 
of their human Integrity, and leaves them with Clarity authority or in exchange for a reward.
alone. Even a changeling who is rescued passes through Sometimes, an Icon remains where the changeling 
the Thorns and loses part of himself. A soul shredded by lost it, in wild and deadly territory. Other times, it mean-
pain and healed only imperfectly leaves the Hedge, with ders across the Hedge, carried on the wind or moving of 
chunks torn out that leave scars on her psyche for the rest its own volition. It can even end up playing a role in some 
of her life; but a changeling can mend her soul if the lost mortal’s dream, finding its way into a Bastion. But just as 
patches return. often, something finds it. Sometimes, that something is 

Icons can look like anything, from brilliant shards fae, and sometimes it is Fae.
of crystal, to pocket watches, to scraps of cloth or bone, To a True Fae, an Icon is an item of sentimental 
or even living creatures. An Icon’s form represents some- value, a keepsake to remind it of its beloved slave or val-
thing about the changeling, a piece of her personality or ued possession, a bargaining chip to trade with the one 
a moment from her past. A bird Icon might represent the whose servant lost the Icon, or just a curiosity. It can give 
changeling’s free spirit or a long-lost beloved pet, while a the Icon to a Huntsman or a privateer as a lure for their 
rock Icon might represent her stubbornness or the stabil- quarry. While the Gentry have no shortage of perverse 
ity of her ethical code. They are small and easy to carry, things they can do with an Icon, these pale in significance 
and when a changeling recovers one, it becomes part of next to the object’s draw on the Lost. A changeling’s soul 
her again the moment she returns to the mortal world. is never whole without her Icons, and the loss bites deep 
(Of course, she has to get it there first.) — the Lost always seem to come back for their Icons, and 

System: Recovering an Icon completely replen- so they make excellent bait.
ishes a character’s Willpower points and permanently An Icon also makes a nice little treasure for a drag-
increases her maximum Clarity by one. It also restores on’s hoard or a Goblin Queen to hold in case she needs 
that part of her mind or heart that was missing, which to bargain with the Lost. It fetches a handsome price at 
can contain pain, but also can contain good memories. a Goblin Market, and it looks good as a trophy — some-
She might remember forgotten obligations, such as the times, the Thorns can be goblins, too, and they like to 
kindly Wizened butler who helped her escape in return brag. A hag might hide it in the deepest, darkest tunnels 
for a promise to never forget him — and they might spur under the smelliest bog in the lands just to spite a change-

ling who wronged her once.

The Hedge 203



Hedgespinning – Subtle Shifts
Success 
Cost Effect
1+ Give any character an equipment bonus to their next roll equal to successes spent, to a maximum of +5; 

represents creating or fortuitously finding one of the five types of equipment (p. 196) on the fly
1+ Give any character a general and ballistic armor rating equal to successes spent for one turn, to a 

maximum of +5
1+ Create one or more weapons from whole cloth, of a total Availability equal to successes spent
1+ Increase or decrease a Hedge object or structure’s Durability by successes spent for one turn, to a 

maximum of +5
1 Make a minor aesthetic change to a Hedge object, structure, or terrain feature, such as turning a house purple 

or putting a rainbow in the sky
1 Decrease an opponent’s Speed or Initiative modifier by 1 for the scene (cumulative)
1 Learn which direction to travel in to reach one stated type of location that isn’t deliberately concealed (but not 

a specific location; “any Hollow” or “an entrance to the Gate of Horn,” not “Juliet’s Hollow” or “the entrance 
my Keeper used”)

1 Introduce a minor beneficial twist of luck or complication for any character
2 Introduce a personal Tilt for any character
2 Introduce a hazard to the scene, such as carnivorous grass or a swarm of bees
3 Learn which direction to travel in to reach a stated specific location that isn’t deliberately concealed
3 Make a minor location change, like moving the action outdoors from inside or onto the roof from the ground
3 Create a new localized terrain feature, such as a bridge, a tree, or a swamp
4 Introduce a temporary Condition for any character as long as a Hedge feature currently in the environment 

could impose it, which fades without resolution when the target leaves the Hedge
4 Turn any character’s failure into a dramatic failure that doesn’t grant a Beat, as long as a Hedge feature 

currently in the environment could cause it
4 Automatically gain the Edge next turn while navigating the Hedge
4 Change one physical property of a Hedge object, structure, or terrain feature not currently in use, such as 

increasing or decreasing its Size by 1 or turning a brick house into a gingerbread one

Hedgespinning Storyteller rolls eight Hedgespinning dice. This roll loses 
the 10-again quality if she’s on a trod, gains 9-again if not, 

Savvy travelers understand how the Hedge responds and gains 8-again if she’s in the Thorns. The Storyteller 
to their thoughts and feelings, and can learn to delib- can use any successes beyond one to enact shifts, subtle 
erately shape it by altering people’s mindsets, including or paradigm, in direct reaction to whatever the characters 
their own. The Hedge is anything but simple — any just did. A paradigm shift the Hedge itself enacts grants a 
change may have unforeseen and potentially dangerous Beat to each player whose character suffers adverse effects 
consequences. But mastering the art means gaining a from it.
measure of control over the landscape, easing a journey 
or making someone else’s harder. The Thorns may burst Subtle Shifts
open and release goblins armed with daggers and malice, 
but the changeling scorches clear the path ahead with It’s not enough to simply think of something ter-
pure, searing rage. rifying, or use Contracts to change emotions magically. 

A traveler must engage in a give-and-take with the sur-
Any fae creature can subtly shape the Hedge, but only rounding Hedge and the people whose minds it reflects, 

changelings, Gentry, and Huntsmen can enact paradigm pushing and pulling a little at a time until each changes 
shifts. The Hedge also shapes itself: whenever a character the other. For instance, if she wants to create a bridge to 
makes a roll to navigate or investigate a place, deal with a span a chasm, she must guide events toward harmony or 
Hedge denizen, or otherwise interact with the Hedge, the 

204 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



progress, perhaps convincing people (or goblins) to work successes, she may either deal four points of damage (plus 
together to accomplish something, or physically wrestling her weapon’s modifier as normal), change four successes’ 
with a foe who represents an internal struggle she wishes worth of Hedge details, or compromise between them to 
to move past. deal some damage and change some details. The player 

Any mundane action a character takes in the Hedge can only allocate rolled successes to Hedgespinning, not 
may help pave the way toward Hedgespinning, although successes automatically added by a weapon’s modifier or 
since the shifts reflect the emotions and general men- other method.
tal state of everyone involved, the results can have un- Because the number of rolled successes always mat-
predictable side effects on exceptional successes and ters for Hedgespinning, working together with allies is 
dramatic failures. Before each action, the player decides vitally important for achieving major changes to the 
whether she wants it to generate shaping successes or Hedge; a player can more reliably score large numbers 
not. If she does, the action takes a dice penalty depend- of successes while taking teamwork actions with her 
ing on where she is: −3 on a trod, −2 in the Thorns, motley. Extended actions in the Hedge can allocate suc-
or −1 elsewhere. If she generates successes in excess of cesses to Hedgespinning as well, but each roll must im-
what’s necessary to succeed at the action, she may imme- mediately apply its excess successes to shaping during 
diately spend one Glamour and allocate those extra suc- that interval; they don’t accumulate over the course of 
cesses to Hedgespinning. She can spend Hedgespinning the action.
successes to change details about her surroundings, or Subtle Hedge-shaping effects can be as fantastical 
learn secrets and shortcuts. A dramatic failure on a roll as the changeling likes, as long as they’re still relatively 
designated for Hedgespinning incites Bedlam (p. 110) in small changes. Players should describe their changes in 
everyone present. terms of what’s actually happening to the scenery — for 

A player can only allocate any given rolled success to instance, creating a weapon via Survival actions might 
one purpose, so on actions for which successes matter, she make a tree sprout sword-leaves a changeling can pick, or 
must choose whether to allocate each success to its usual she might take a Jury Rigging action to smash two rocks 
result or to the shaping. For instance, if the changeling together until they merge and form a hammer. Learn-
makes a successful attack against a loyalist and rolls four ing information about the area via shifts involves actions 

The Hedge 205



Hedgespinning – Paradigm Shifts
Success 
Cost Effect
2+ Bank a number of successes to add to a later shift within this scene (subtle or paradigm) equal to successes 

spent minus one, to a maximum of five banked successes
3 Transform a Hedge object, structure, or terrain feature not currently in use into something completely different 

of roughly the same size or mass, like turning a wall into a huge pile of gemstones or a stream into a beanstalk
3 Introduce a major beneficial twist of luck or complication for any character
5 Create any one goblin fruit
5 Introduce an Environmental Tilt
5 Force another character to engage in a Clash of Wills with you if they try to take a Hedgespinning action; 

failure means they waste their Glamour and extra successes
6 Learn which direction to travel in to reach a stated location type or specific location that’s deliberately 

concealed or mystically protected, like a specific dreamer’s Bastion or the exit to a maze (but not how to 
navigate what’s in between); if another character’s magic conceals or protects the location, the changeling 
must win a Clash of Wills

7 Introduce a Persistent Condition for any character as long as a Hedge feature currently in the environment 
could impose it, which fades without resolution when the target leaves the Hedge

7 Completely change the scenery, like transforming a parking lot into a sewer or making a volcano rise up from 
beneath a city street

8 Ignore the effects of a single attack or ignore a Tilt’s effects for one turn
8 Perform one impossible action the changeling couldn’t normally perform as long as it interacts with the 

environment, like leap 100 feet into the air on a tarp trampoline, breathe underwater, or throw a thorn spear 
to knock a star out of the sky

9 Add one enhancement to a Hollow you’re currently inside (p. 116), or add one ability to your Fae Mount (p. 
113), for the scene; you may purchase these with Experiences to make them permanent if doing so wouldn’t 
exceed the maximum Merit dots

9 Move your immediate environs, with a radius up to (your Wyrd x 10) yards/meters, up or down one step on 
the scale from trod to normal Hedge to Thorns.

9 Transfer an emotional Condition onto another character present in the scene

that confuse or persuade the Hedge to open up paths that into play for her exceptional success. She may spend 
didn’t exist before; for instance, she could draw a picture these successes on subtle effects as above, but she may 
of a door on a blank stone wall and convince everyone also spend them on more drastic changes, listed above.
present that it’s a real door through which a threat might If the character has a Contract, token, or other pow-
come at any moment, thus making it one that leads to a er that would allow her to make a change normally, the 
Hollow she didn’t even know was there. Of course, doing player doesn’t need to spend successes to do it. For in-
it that way might lead to a Hollow inhabited by someone stance, using Elemental Fury to call down a storm doesn’t 
hostile, but that’s just an opportunity for potential gain. require a paradigm shift and doesn’t give her an emo-

See p. 204 for is a list of example Hedgespinning ef- tional Condition.
fects a player can spend individual successes to accomplish. Once per scene, if a paradigm shift aligns with the 
The Storyteller may allow others on a case-by-case basis. changeling’s Thread, gain one extra success to add to her 
Paradigm Shifts next Hedgespinning action during the scene.

Enacting a paradigm shift in the Hedge requires the 
If a player achieves an exceptional success on any changeling to let what’s going on around her affect her 

action designated for Hedgespinning, she may spend two deeply. At the end of any scene in which a changeling 
points of Glamour to enact a paradigm shift, spending performed at least one Hedgespinning paradigm shift, she 
not just excess successes on the roll, but all of them. If gains an emotional Condition that reflects the general 
she does, she forfeits the usual Condition she would bring 

206 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



direction and outcome of the changes she made. For in- own court filled with her spawn. Within Gloomwood, la 
stance, if she summoned a blazing fire, she’s likely to gain Duquesa lives in the fortress called el Alcázar de Pesadillas 
the Berserk Condition; but if that blazing fire got out of at the center of Gloomshire, a small village whose inhabit-
control and killed a few innocent goblin bystanders, she ants she abducted, one by one, from the mortal world as 
might gain the Guilty Condition instead. Pulling these children. Gloomshire is the site of the Gloomwood Fair, 
emotions from deep inside her to change reality might and la Duquesa does her utmost to make it seem like a 
dredge up memories from her durance or make her feel normal little town, but in truth it is just a façade. Her spi-
too fae for comfort, potentially prompting a breaking der children run the town to trap and eat unwary travelers, 
point at the player’s discretion. and the human population is little more than terrified fig-

Paradigm shifts also alert the Hedge locals that some ureheads. Hapless prisoners end up in el Alcázar de Pesa-
powerful business is going down nearby, and they inevi- dillas, where la Duquesa kills and consumes them unless 
tably come to have a look — or punish whoever turned they defeat her in a contest of her choosing.
their liar’s apple tree into a scarecrow. The more paradigm The Sleeping Badger is an inn across which wan-
shifts a character enacts in a scene, the more attention derers in the Hedge occasionally stumble. Travelers have 
she draws to herself. found it in many places, many times — some Lost specu-

A changeling may use her kenning (p. 107) with a late that the Sleeping Badger actually stalks interesting 
dice bonus equal to her Empathy dots to read the nature travelers across the Hedge and appears to them in their 
of any paradigm shifts that occurred in the area within moment of need. The Fae and their servants never ap-
the last week. proach the inn and, when they’re hunting someone, it 

appears to their quarry. Little knowledge exists about it 
Places in the Hedge — it is always empty of customers, but offers deliciously 

The Hedge is not a monotonous maze of fog-shroud- prepared meals, hot baths already drawn, and inviting, 
ed bramble. Those parts exist, but the Hedge has other ready-made beds. Changelings who have found the Sleep-
things inside it as well. ing Badger sometimes say they ate and slept soundly and 

left without trouble; others tell stories of nightmarish 
The Deep Caves are a treacherous feature of the things happening at night, of their own shadows hunting 

Hedge, a set of narrow tunnels lined with razor-sharp them, and of helplessly watching themselves eating flies 
gemstones that wind, twist, and change as the traveler and human flesh. Maybe they dreamed it, or maybe the 
proceeds. They rarely see use, and few would follow a fu- ones who talk of a pleasant stay have simply forgotten…or 
gitive there, because few ever return. Some changelings been made to forget. Perhaps something different happens 
say the Deep Caves are alive, a predatory beast with gem- each time. Perhaps not everyone leaves at all.
stones for teeth, an ancient and powerful hobgoblin that 
has grown to enormous size and lies in wait to feast on Goblin Fruit
flesh and blood. Others say they are a passage to the Un-
derworld, where the souls of the dead dwell, and the fer- The Hedge is a fertile place, and here and there its 
ryman owes anyone who successfully braves them three branches bear fruit, alien yet oddly familiar growths that 
wishes. (Traits for the Deep Caves are on p. 257.) carry the scent of laughter and taste like bittersweet re-

grets. Here are found poisoned apples and fruit from the 
The Dreaming Roads are the part of the Hedge tree of wisdom, each carrying its own perfected shape and 

that connects to humanity’s dreams. They branch off murmuring with its colors and sweet smells, “eat me.” The 
from hidden gates and take the traveler into the realm Lost obey.
of dreams, where sleeping minds grasp for wonder inside 
fortress-like Bastions. Many a wanderer has fled a briar- Goblin fruit: the fruit goblins eat, and fruit that are 
wolf only to find himself standing beneath black gates and themselves goblins. They are a million fancies, mirroring 
an ever-moonlit sky. (See Oneiromancy, p. 220, for more all the sweet delicacies of Earth and so much more. They 
information.) are a favored part of Lost cuisine, with some variety or an-

other fitting into every dish. They carry within them the 
Gloomwood looks from outside like a small stand of essence of the place where they spawned, and consuming 

foreboding trees blocking the path forward through the one bestows Glamour and other fae benefits upon the eater.
Hedge. Inside, it is a dreamlike forest filled with mist, with 
giant cobwebs strung between the boughs. This is where Varieties
the Gloomwood Fair, a regular Goblin Market, takes place 
every solstice and equinox, and this is where the spider- No full listing of goblin fruits could possibly exist. For 
thing la Duquesa de las Arañas holds her court. A mon- that, they are too many and too individual. Below is a list 
strous fae being, the eldest among the Lost say la Duquesa of exceptional examples. Most goblin fruits simply restore 
was once one of their kind, but she sold her sanity long one point of Glamour when consumed — the exceptional 
ago and became Gloomwood’s queen. Now she keeps her varieties listed below provide unique effects in addition.

The Hedge 207



A changeling can only sustain a certain amount of recover a point of Willpower alongside the Glamour. She 
goblin fruit outside the Hedge, based on her Wyrd rating. suffers a Clarity attack with a one-die pool.
Any extras rot away, starting with the oldest one. So long 
as she does not carry any more than her permitted rating, Ogre Peppers
though, only fruit specifically noted to spoil do so. Growing on tightly-wound, leafless coils of barbed 

wood, ogre peppers are small, jagged, and cruel-looking 
Wyrd Goblin Fruits Sustained chilies formed from righteous wrath and well-earned 
1 Three guilt in equal combination. They are sour and spicy in 
2-3 Seven the extreme, far beyond what most mouths can endure. 

Consuming one leaves the eater’s mouth with bleeding 
4-6 13 sores, blood seeping out through the lips and down the 
7-8 29 chin, though it inflicts no damage. Ogre peppers leave 
9 101 the consumer fearless until the next midnight, provided 
10 Unlimited she pursues a goal she truly believes in; she automatically 

succeeds on all attempts to contest or resist fear in its 

Amaranthine many variations, but suffers a two-die penalty on all rolls 
to maintain self-control. From ogre peppers, changelings 

A small eggplant in the soft red of compassion, ama- also extract red capsaicin, a liquid identical in appear-
ranthine grows where despair colors the Hedge the most ance to blood that is many times stronger than mundane 
deeply, and smells like hope and cinnamon. When eaten, capsaicin oil.
it instantly heals a single point of aggravated damage. It 
is one of the most desirable goblin fruits, and fetches high Vines of Bacchus
prices at Goblin Markets. The vines of Bacchus are a rare delicacy, plump and 

Faerie Peach cheerful, with colorful flowers and a heady aroma. When 
mashed, they form a rainbow paste that goes well in sal-

Plump and juicy, fragile to the point of transparency, ads and can induce a prophetic haze in those who smoke 
faerie peaches feed on the radiance of the True Fae, and it. Their most valued effect is that they taste foul beyond 
only sprout where the Gentry pass frequently by. That belief to anyone who wishes harm on the people around 
makes them dangerous to forage for, and a clear warning them, which means they are useful for rooting out loyalist 
sign when one of the Lost stumbles across them. When infiltrators in a freehold.
she consumes one, her mien takes on the grand and ter-
rible majesty of the Fae themselves, and the Hedge shies Oddments
away from her. She travels the Thorns as though they Not all goblin fruits are edible. Some are tools or 
were normal Hedge and normal Hedge as though it were a weapons. Strange things grow in the fog-crazed depths of 
trod, but all fae beings nearby sense her presence strongly the Hedge, things some unknown force made with pur-
and see her for what she is, and anyone who knows her pose and desire. They may have their origin in Faerie, but 
face still recognizes her. This phenomenon intrigues the the Gentry find them too weak to be of use.
Gentry, and if the impostor is revealed, she can expect 
more Fae than just her Keeper to take an interest. The Cogleaf
effect lasts until the changeling leaves the Hedge or for a 
day and a night, whichever comes first. Shiny metallic leaves in the shape of small cogs, co-

gleaves lie on the ground, as if shed from a tree that is 
Liar’s Apple nowhere to be found. While they contain the same Glam-

our as any goblin fruit, they are made of metal and most 
Delicious, red, and round, liar’s apples grow only in changelings cannot digest them. A cogleaf is a universal 

the most deceptively pleasant groves within the Hedge. replacement part for anything broken. So long as the bro-
When eaten, they taste of ashes and gloating, and leave ken part is small and hidden from sight, a device with 
the eater unable to tell the truth until the sunrise after a cogleaf installed works, whether it replaced a busted 
the next — which also makes her immune to interroga- motherboard or a missing rope from a pulley. A device 
tion, but not to the consequences of her lies. repaired with a cogleaf also becomes unnoticeable to any 
Odinroot being without a Supernatural Tolerance trait — mundane 

beings see the object, but it does not hold their interest 
Stark and strange, odinroot grows only out of bare or attention at all, and quickly slips from their memories. 

rock where blood drawn by the Thorns has fallen. It has a Anyone immune to this effect instead immediately senses 
stoic and untrustworthy look to it, and when it is chewed that something is strange about that device.
raw, the bitter flavor of realization allows the eater to 

208 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Jennystones Pledges
Some plants are oddments because they are just so Beware making deals with the fae.

unappetizing. Jennystones are said to be the lost teeth of 
the folk legend Jenny Greenteeth, but whether this is true Much of human understanding of the fae — includ-
or not, they usually grow as seeds on the Jennystone bush. ing changelings, Huntsmen, the True Fae, and everything in 
They are an oddment because of their smell — they stink between — comes down to that platitude. And yet, note the 
beyond belief, with an almost malicious edge to them. They phrasing. “Beware making deals” is cautionary, not proscrip-
reek so strongly that any creature unfortunate enough to tive. It isn’t that people can’t bargain with the creatures from the 
smell them suffers a one-die penalty on all non-reflexive other side of the Hedge, it’s just dangerous and usually unwise. 
actions while the smell is present. Jennystones are popular Pledges, though, are an integral part of life for change-
sling stones for changelings willing to hold their breath or lings. They are attuned to the Wyrd, and the Wyrd takes 
wear gas masks. Someone desperate enough can swallow statements of intent seriously. How many times a day does 
one to regain a point of Glamour if he can keep the thing a person say “I promise” or “I swear” or “so help me,” but 
down, which requires a successful Stamina roll. with no real belief behind those words? The Wyrd refus-

es to accept casual use of such phrases, and the fae may 
Lancebeet make such statements binding.

An oddment filled with joyous abandon, lancebeet is a Changelings also make promises to one another, 
long, thin, beet-like vegetable that tapers to a sharp point. It swearing oaths of loyalty, love, enmity, or simply friend-
tastes like an unexceptional, moderately sweet apple when ship. They make such oaths using the same power that lets 
eaten. Those who harvest it can throw it as a weapon, which the Wyrd seal statements of intent, but with very different 
eagerly seeks out its target, adding three dice to the attack purpose. An oath between changelings is taken with free 
roll. After hitting a target, it quickly withers away into noth- will and full consent. To do otherwise is a grave insult, 
ing but the vague sense of loss and youthful trust betrayed. and impossible for those who still retain any independence 

from the Wyrd’s ineffable will.
Type Dmg Rng Initiative Str Size Finally, the fae can make promises of service, favors, or 
Lancebeet 2 Thrown −2 2 2 magic to others. The benefit to doing so is concealment — a 

Pledges 209



changeling performing services for others ingratiates herself Benefits
to the Wyrd, thus hiding effectively from Huntsmen. Sealing has little benefit to the person making the 

All fae creatures engage in some form of deal mak- statement. For the most part, the sealing simply locks the 
ing, whether it’s changelings making pledges, hobgoblins subject into his words; he’s forced to follow through on 
collecting debts, or the Gentry claiming sovereignty over what he has promised or suffer the consequences. If the 
Regalia in exchange for limiting themselves. It’s in all character does follow through, without attempting to get 
their best interests to make sure this unspoken economy out of it, he comes through the experience wiser and ful-
continues apace, because if the fae didn’t define the terms filled; in game terms, he gains a Beat. Sealing provides no 
of the Wyrd’s demand for settled obligations this way, it material or magical benefit, however. 
would find another one — one nobody would like. For the character doing the sealing, the benefit is main-

Sealing ly in being able to hold something over the subject’s head. 
The sealer can release the effect at any time, unbinding the 

The simplest form of a pledge, a sealing requires that promise and freeing the subject from his words. 
a fae being see or hear someone make a statement of in-
tent. The intent doesn’t have to be sincere, and the fae Consequences
have been taking advantage of promises made in haste A sealing is simple, quick magic, and breaking it 
or exaggeration since human beings first started using has an immediate, annoying effect. Sometimes the oath-
language. A man who says to his son, “I swear, next breaker feels tired or develops a sudden headache. Some-
time you come home late, I’m kicking you out” probably times he experiences a brief run of bad luck. Extreme 
doesn’t mean it — but to the Wyrd, that doesn’t matter. effects might include nosebleeds or subtle supernatural 
A fae being can seal that promise, and the unfortunate effects; the character’s reflection reverses for an hour, for 
father must either make good on his word or suffer the instance, or cream curdles in his presence. 
consequences. The sealer can, however, increase the severity of the 

Any fae creature can seal a promise. Changelings consequences by investing a bit more magic into the pro-
generally do it to give themselves leverage with human cess. If she does so, the subject might suffer minor injuries 
antagonists or cement a bargaining position. Huntsmen or endure the sealer’s magic with no hope of resistance. 
do it to add unwitting or unwilling pawns to their arse-
nal of Lost-hunting tools. Others do it for a variety of Systems
reasons, always maneuvering to get something out of it To seal a statement, the changeling needs to hear a sub-
in the end. ject make a statement of intent. This includes any phrase that 

Creatures of the Wyrd (including changelings) are, expresses a pledge, promise, or plan to undertake a course of 
for the most part, immune to the effects of sealing. Other action. The statement doesn’t have to be something that the 
fae creatures can attempt to seal their words, but since the subject could actually complete, however. 
fae know what to look for and can detect the slight fluc- The changeling cannot seal a statement unless she is 
tuations in the Wyrd needed to seal a statement, they can present when the subject makes it. If the changeling were 
undo the sealing as quickly as it’s done. A changeling can to see a person type or write a statement, she could seal it. 
allow her statement to be sealed; she usually does this to She cannot, however, scroll through a social media feed 
demonstrate that she has every intention of keeping her and seal every statement of intent she sees, nor can she 
word on a minor matter. A serious declaration of intent or seal a statement if she only sees or hears a recording. 
honesty merits an oath (see below), but a promise of some-
thing comparatively mundane (“I promise, I won’t leave To seal a statement, the player simply spends a point 
until we dance”) or a promise made if time is a factor of Glamour. If the subject is also able to use Glamour, 
(“Yes, truce, I’m not going to hurt you, now get in here”) he can undo the sealing by countering with a point of 
can simply be sealed. his own. Both parties are aware of what happened. If a 

changeling allows her words to be sealed, she takes a Beat. 
Most Courts don’t place any stigma on attempting to A changeling can only earn one Beat per chapter this way.

seal a statement, even if the other party undoes it immedi-
ately. To changelings, an attempt to seal a statement isn’t The player can decide upon a penalty for breaking 
so much an attempt to bind the other party with magic the seal when the seal is made, or when it is broken. As 
as it is a tacit statement that the sealing party is paying stated under Consequences, the penalty is fairly minor. 
attention and expects the other changeling to keep her The player can choose from: 
word. Likewise, undoing the seal isn’t necessarily a blatant •	 Loss of one Willpower point
declaration that the character will break her word, just 
that she doesn’t wish to be held to it magically. •	 One point of bashing damage

210 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



•	 A one-die penalty to all rolls for one scene

•	 A two-die penalty on a specific Skill for one scene Sealing in Play
•	 A three-die penalty for one specific roll Changeling players can use sealing to bind 

characters to their word, but without the effort 
•	 A minor supernatural effect (character’s reflection required to make a bargain or an oath. Of 

faces the wrong way, character causes milk to spoil, course, the effects are commensurately small, 
cats scratch or bite the character, etc.) for one scene but the subject of a sealing doesn’t neces-
When creating a seal, the changeling can also sarily know the consequences are minor. If a 

character knows the changeling is a super-
strengthen it. Doing so requires spending a Willpower natural being, capable of impressive magical 
point as well as a Glamour point. If the character does feats, and understands that she is bound into 
this, the player can levy a more stringent penalty for a promise “or else,” the changeling wields 
breaking the seal, including: some considerable psychological power 
•	 Loss of ability to regain Willpower for one day over her. The Storyteller should let this kind of 

power grant benefits in Social maneuvering. 
•	 One point of lethal damage Changelings can seal each other’s words, 
•	 Three points of bashing damage and gain one Beat per chapter for allowing 

their allies to seal theirs. If the players abuse 
•	 Loss of ability to spend Willpower for one scene the privilege (“Okay, let’s all go around the 

circle and promise to buy each other a burger 
•	 A two-die penalty on all rolls for one scene so we can all get a Beat and avoid worse 

sealings”), the Storyteller may rule that the 
•	 A three-die penalty to all rolls with a specific Skill constant minor fluctuations in the Wyrd attract 

for one scene Huntsmen or the Gentry, or that breaking 
such a frivolous seal carries a much harsher 

•	 A five-die penalty to one specific roll penalty due to the insult to the Wyrd. 

•	 Use of one of the changeling’s Contracts on the 
target, activated when they break the seal. The 
player rolls to activate the Contract and notes the to her own devious devices, here, but kicking the conse-
successes; the effect applies when/if the subject quences up to the level of an oath, p. 212, is a good place 
breaks the seal. to start). Changelings also sometimes seal statements and 
A seal is broken when the subject either attempts to then work to make fulfilling them impossible, to gain an 

fulfill the promise and fails or becomes incapable of doing so. advantage or just to make a point.
For example, someone saying “I’m going to kick his ass” Sealing a Huntsman: A changeling can attempt to 
would fail to fulfill this promise if he picks a fight with seal a Huntsman’s statement, but doing so requires the 
the other party and loses, or if the other party were to player to reflexively roll Presence + Wyrd vs. the Hunts-
die before the fight happens. If the subject had said, “I’m man’s Resolve + Wyrd. The player still needs to spend a 
going to kick his ass if he doesn’t leave my sister alone,” point of Glamour.
the subject is under no compulsion to start the fight if Roll Results
the other party does, in fact, stay away from the sister. If, 
however, the other party dates the sister and the subject Success: The changeling seals the Huntsman’s state-
makes no attempt to fight him, he breaks the seal and the ment. Huntsmen, being vessels for the True Fae, feel the 
consequences apply. weight of their words more strongly. The changeling can 

levy a heavier consequence, just as if she had strength-
The subject might simply refuse to ever honor the ened the seal by spending Willpower. The changeling 

promise, but as long as he is capable of doing so, the seal gains the Paranoid Condition. 
remains intact. Of course, the subject might make a state-
ment (which a changeling then seals), and then make an- Exceptional Success: As above, and the changeling 
other statement refuting the first (which a changeling also does not gain the Paranoid Condition. 
seals), placing the subject in a catch-22 situation regard- Failure: The changeling fails to seal the Huntsman’s 
ing the Wyrd. Even with the relatively innocuous magic words.
of sealing, the Lost regard this as a bad position to be Dramatic Failure: The Huntsman sees and notes 
in; the subject cannot help but violate one oath or the the changeling, marking her with a malevolent gaze. She 
other, and the Wyrd takes notice (the Storyteller is left gains the Paranoid Condition. 

Pledges 211



Sealing the True Fae: The Gentry are far too pow- Benefits
erful for casual statements to bind them. A changeling Swearing an oath has many potential benefits, but 
can attempt to seal the word of a Fair One, but the Fae which ones the swearer enjoys depends on the nature of 
automatically notices and can refute it without Glamour the oath and the language employed. Oaths that bind 
expenditure. Whether she laughs off the petty attempt multiple characters together, such as the oath a change-
to entrap her in her own words or immediately turns the ling swears when joining a motley, court, or freehold, usu-
changeling into a weasel depends on the Fae in question. ally grant magical effects or bolster a character’s relation-

Oaths ship with the Wyrd in some way. Oaths that bind two 
fae together harmoniously, such as a marriage vow or a 

An oath between two changelings is at once a com- pact of friendship, allow the sworn to bolster or support 
monplace and special occurrence. Oaths are a kind of one another, and, often, to find each other wherever they 
currency to the Lost, because all of them understand that might roam. Oaths that bind them together in enmity, 
any temporal reward could become meaningless at any though, such as duel oaths, oblige both characters to per-
moment. When everything falls apart, all a changeling form sinister and fatalistic deeds. The Wyrd repays dis-
has is her word, and she doesn’t give that away lightly. If cord with discord, and harmony with harmony. 
two (or more) changelings are willing to exchange oaths, 
they know — and the Wyrd knows — that they are seri- Consequences
ous about their feelings. Violating an oath is a dangerous proposition, in large 

Changelings, Huntsmen, and the True Fae are the part because a character cannot escape from an oath. An 
only beings that can swear oaths, and Huntsmen cannot oath, once sworn, defines his relationship with the other 
swear oaths to each other. Human beings and other non- party forever. As such, if a changeling swears a motley 
fae creatures can make bargains with the Lost, but these oath, then violates that oath and betrays his motley, his 
are defined by what the bargaining parties will do, not relationship with them is “former motley member and 
what they feel. Oaths are sworn with heart, soul, blood, traitor.” He can never not have a relationship with them; 
and Wyrd. The actions the swearer takes demonstrate their fates are entwined. The oath itself usually lays out 
whether she follows or violates an oath. the specific consequences of violating it, but some overly 

Changelings take a wide variety of formal oaths, used optimistic changelings don’t bother specifying what hap-
for a number of different situations. Common oaths in- pens to an oathbreaker. These unfortunates suffer terri-
clude joining a court (the changeling swears an oath to bly. Without the words of an oath to direct its power, the 
another member of that court, and receives its Mantle), Wyrd has free rein to punish the offender.
joining a motley (motley oaths are infinitely varied, but Specific consequences for violating an oath may in-
usually include a vow to do no harm to the other mem- clude disruption of magic (if the fae isn’t going to honor 
bers), forming or joining a freehold (a larger-scale version his contracts, why should the Wyrd?), sickness, Clarity 
of a motley oath), and declaring a duel (both parties agree damage, or increased attention from other fae creatures. 
on the terms, weapons, and win conditions). For the True Fae, the consequences are even more dire 

Swearing an oath binds characters together. That (p. 270). The larger problem for changelings, though, is 
binding is permanent — though someone can “break” that a changeling’s status as an oathbreaker follows him. 
an oath, doing so merely changes the parameters of the It is possible for an oathbreaker to be forgiven, but this re-
oath, rather than erasing it. A changeling can leave a quires him to make recompense to all offended parties…
motley, but he can’t take back the time he spent with the including the Wyrd itself. 
other changelings or the oath he made; once he makes 
restitution, the terms may shift to accommodate the new Systems
circumstances, but the oath doesn’t go away. A change- Any number of characters can swear an oath. Some 
ling might leave his lover, but he can’t obviate the re- oaths are closed, meaning that once sworn, no new par-
lationship, and earning forgiveness just means they owe ticipants can be added. Others are open, meaning that 
each other something different now. By making an oath, new characters can swear the same oath and receive the 
the character chooses to define himself, at least in part, same benefits. 
by that oath. All participants must speak the oath aloud or write 

No magic can force a character into swearing an oath. it out, and seal it with a point of Glamour. Oaths also 
A changeling could coerce, blackmail, or threaten some- involve a physical gesture; two changelings swearing an 
one into swearing one, but she couldn’t use a Contract to oath of camaraderie might cut their hands and mingle 
simply make it happen against the other party’s will; the the blood, while changelings swearing eternal love usu-
Wyrd doesn’t consider that kind of cheating valid. ally kiss. A changeling joining a court might clasp hands 

with a ranking member of that court, while a changeling 

212 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



joining a motley could embrace each of the other mem- Personal oaths are sworn between two changelings 
bers in turn. in support of one another: lovers, blood siblings, friends, 

Once the participants swear the oath, they reap the or protectors. Changelings who swear these oaths while 
benefits. The specific benefits to an oath vary, as do the maintaining membership in a motley had best beware — 
consequences, but oaths for changelings can be broken the Wyrd doesn’t care if the changeling must break one 
down into three rough categories: societal, personal, and oath in service to another (and in fact, such situations 
hostile. The Gentry’s oaths are far too broad and strange come up regularly for the Lost). 
to fall into categories this way. Changelings bound by a personal oath gain a Beat 

All oaths bestow the Persistent Oathbreaker Condi- whenever they suffer a setback or inconvenience in the 
tion (p. 343) if violated. course of living up to the oath, up to once per chapter. 

Societal oaths include oaths sworn when a change- A changeling making a significant effort to express the 
ling joins a motley, court, or freehold. The changeling emotion that inspired the oath in some obvious manner 
gains the benefits of being part of that group. For a can regain all spent Willpower, just as if he had affirmed 
court, this means the character gains the first dot of the his Needle, once per chapter. In addition, the oath-mates 
Mantle Merit (p. 117) without spending Experiences, can choose one of the following effects (or create a new 
and is bound by whatever restrictions that court usually one with Storyteller approval): 
levies. For a freehold, the changeling becomes a recog- •	 Once per chapter, one member can suffer an injury 
nized part of the local supernatural landscape; the player on behalf of the other. The changeling doing so 
receives a +1 to all rolls to navigate the Hedge wherever suffers all damage that his partner would have, and 
the freehold controls it. For a motley, the changeling en- cannot reduce this damage through armor, magic, 
ters a pact with his fellows. The nature of the pact varies or any other means. 
— some motleys are bosom companions, some merely 
agree to come together when an outside force threat- •	 One member can suffer a Condition or Tilt meant 
ens them all — but the members can choose one from for the other. This has to be decided when the Con-
a number of game effects (or create a new one with the dition or Tilt is levied (if an attack blinds a charac-
Storyteller’s approval): ter, that character’s oath-mate can’t take the Blind 

Condition the next day), but the two changelings 
•	 Once per chapter, they can treat a Contract roll as don’t have to be in the same place for this effect 

a teamwork action (p. 190). All participants must to happen. This doesn’t grant immediate, detailed 
possess the Contract for this to work. knowledge of the other characters’ situations, but 

•	 Members of the motley can meditate for one turn, the changeling does consciously make the decision 
and distribute their collective Glamour evenly to take on the Tilt. For example, if one changeling 
among the members; the Wyrd consumes any left- is fighting with some briarwolves and would suffer 
over Glamour as a tithe. the Arm Wrack Tilt, a motley member miles away 

could feel the wounds start to appear and choose 
•	 Once per chapter, when representing the motley, to take on the injury herself, but she wouldn’t know 

a member can use the highest relevant Social Skill where her friend was or what manner of danger he 
possessed by any member and apply the effects of any was facing. Changelings can’t suffer Clarity Condi-
Merit or kith blessing present in the group. The char- tions on each other’s behalf.
acter doesn’t need the motley’s permission when rep-
resenting them, but any consequences for that char- •	 Once per chapter, the changelings can choose 
acter’s action come down upon the motley as a whole. to swap their Glamour or Willpower pools. This 

doesn’t affect their Willpower dots or maximums, 
Consequences for breaking societal oaths always in- merely the points. Once swapped, the changelings 

clude immediate revocation of all benefits, and may also are stuck with those new ratings until they natu-
include: rally rise or fall (or until the next chapter, when the 
•	 A penalty to all Contract rolls within the lands held characters can swap them again).

by a forsworn leader (−3 is usually appropriate). •	 Changelings bound by a personal oath can always 
•	 The character gains the Sick Tilt (p. 331) during find each other. If one is in the depths of the Hedge, 

the season of the court he betrayed. hiding in a new city, or even, some say, among the 
dead in the Underworld, the other party can seek 

•	 Social penalties or the Notoriety Condition (p. 343) him out. This doesn’t change the time required or 
with members of the betrayed group or court. the trials endured to seek out the other member, 

but the oath allows unerring tracking.

Pledges 213



	 Consequences for violating personal oaths tend to Bargains
be comparatively minor, but that’s only because the 
changeling has probably made several lifelong en- Human tales of the fae are replete with accounts 
emies in the process of breaking the oath. Some of faeries performing tasks for people — spinning straw 
possibilities include: into gold, crafting shoes or other goods, cleaning houses, 

cooking fantastic meals, or otherwise using their super-
•	 Feeling the pain of one’s former friends; any wound natural acumen on behalf of humanity. The humans in 

penalties a former motley member suffers also apply these tales sometimes have to repay the faeries’ kindness, 
to the oathbreaker, to a maximum of −3. and the price sometimes takes them aback. 

In truth, though, changelings make bargains with 
•	 The character suffers a −3 to Initiative (p. 182) if people because doing so disguises them. If a changeling 

he enters an action scene against a member of his has an agreed-upon function within human society, other 
former motley. fae creatures have a much more difficult time finding her. 

•	 Breaking a formal oath is a breaking point for Of course, she has to keep up her end of the bargain — 
changelings (p. 104), so some motleys simply let and in order to reap the benefit of the bargain, that bar-
Clarity sort out the consequences. gain must be ongoing. 

Changelings make bargains with human beings for 
Changelings can also swear personal oaths to Hunts- another reason, though, quite apart from the increased 

men, though doing so is dangerous in the extreme. They ability to hide from their enemies. Bargains make change-
usually do this when they’re trying to restore the Hunts- lings feel like they belong. Ripped away from their families, 
man’s heart (p. 264), but nothing stops the Gentry from forced into servitude and escaping through a nightmare of 
reclaiming the verderer again later if they get their hands thorns, changelings are, as their sobriquet implies, Lost. 
on him, and the oath doesn’t end just because one party A bargain with people requires contact with people, and 
loses his free will and personality. The benefits and conse- forces the changeling to rediscover and interact with a 
quences involved in an oath with a Huntsman highly de- world she thought forever taken from her. 
pend on circumstances. The above options are all poten-
tially valid, as is anything else the players come up with, To make a bargain with a person, the changeling has 
at the Storyteller’s discretion. to reveal her true nature. She doesn’t have to be honest 

with the mortal about the particulars of her situation, but 
Hostile oaths indicate undying enmity between two she has to appear to the person without her Mask and 

parties. Once the oath is sworn, the participants must re- propose the terms of the agreement. She can promise any-
main enemies. Hostile oaths usually don’t last very long, thing she wants to the person, but to gain the benefits of 
as the characters swearing them often fight to the death the bargain, she has to be capable of making good on her 
shortly after doing so. Hostile oaths don’t carry much in promise. Changelings should therefore take care to bar-
the way of mechanical benefit, except that a character in- gain with services they have the Skills or Contracts to ful-
volved in one gains a Beat when his enemy wounds or in- fill, though it’s not unknown for a changeling to bargain 
conveniences him, up to once per chapter. A participant with one person to deliver a service that another person 
gains a point of Willpower during any scene in which he she bargained with is actually going to provide. Change-
wounds or inconveniences his enemy. lings should beware, though — it just takes one misstep 

Violating a hostile oath is rare, since, again, they for the whole web to break. 
don’t tend to last long enough. It does happen, though, 
that in the midst of a fight, a changeling has a change Benefits
of heart or learns some heretofore-unknown piece of in- By making a bargain with a human being, the 
formation that renders the enmity moot. The Wyrd, of changeling gains a kind of camouflage with respect to 
course, does not care. The changeling must carry out the the Huntsmen and the Gentry. This protection extends 
letter of the oath, or become marked as an oathbreaker. beyond the Mask — all changelings have some degree of 

When changelings swear oaths with Huntsmen, hos- concealment, but the magic that makes human beings 
tile oaths are the most common. It’s a gamble, but many see them without their fae features only extends so far. A 
changelings would rather take the odds of a knock-down, bargain gives the changeling a place among mortals, and 
drag-out fight or duel than the odds of escape from a tricks the Wyrd into assuming that she should be there. 
single-minded captor. Likewise, some Huntsmen would Huntsmen and Fae, therefore, see her not necessarily as 
rather take the odds of blessed destruction over returning human, but as a natural part of the landscape, a faerie fea-
to the Gentry’s service, but getting at that desire buried ture that is and has always been. A bargain isn’t foolproof, 
beneath the Fae Title to convince the Huntsman to agree of course — the fae are persistent and powerful, and have 
to the oath is a difficult prospect. many ways to ferret out the Lost. 

214 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Consequences more. The feeling of leaden legs as a truck barrels down 
Breaking a bargain with a person doesn’t carry a the desert road, coming this way. Those who carry within 

heavy consequence for the changeling in question, at them a sliver of Arcadia know these things, and more. 
least in comparison with breaking an oath. The change- Lucid dreaming is the art of controlling one’s own dream, 
ling simply loses the benefits of the bargain, meaning that and the Lost excel at it, their dreams growing more vivid 
she is once again exposed to her foes. This is, of course, a and real the more they become creatures of Wyrd. To al-
potentially fraught situation, depending on who’s looking ter dreams, to manipulate those symbols and read mean-
for her at the time. ings into metaphors so deeply personal that no other soul 

would understand — this is the art of oneiromancy, the 
Depending on the scope of the bargain, the change- sorcery of dreams.

ling might also gain the Notoriety Condition (p. 343). 
Walking into a dream is like walking into a new 

The human participant needs to live up to his end, as world, populated by nightmare monsters and everyday 
well, or suffer the wrath of the Wyrd. The most common people just like any other world. But here, everything has 
punishment for a human failing to honor his part in a bargain two meanings. The doorman in your apartment build-
is stumbling through a gateway into the Hedge and therefore ing isn’t just a doorman, he’s also your frustration with 
becoming vulnerable to the Fae. This isn’t because of spe- your humdrum daily routine. He doesn’t know that, but 
cific wording in the bargain (most changelings wouldn’t wish if you press him, he’ll insist you come inside before it gets 
being taken by the Gentry on their worst enemies, much dark, and if you don’t he might become something else. 
less some hapless person who just forgot to set a pie on his When these two meanings conflict, one takes a backseat. 
windowsill), but because of the nature of the bargain. Just as That’s why, when you speak a dream aloud, its events may 
a kept bargain shields a changeling, a broken one shines a not make sense to the waking mind. A sun rises at mid-
harsh light on whoever would dare cheat the Wyrd. night, or a dog speaks Chinese, or a door leads where it 
Systems shouldn’t. These are the transitions between symbol and 

meaning, the translation between the subconscious and 
Changelings cannot swear bargains with other fae something consciousness can clearly remember.

creatures, including changelings, and prefer to do so with All changelings lived for a time in the world of Faerie, 
human beings. Magical beings unaffiliated with the Wyrd which is very like the world of dreams in some ways. Its re-
can agree to bargains, but doing so sometimes has strange ality is malleable in the hands of beings who shape it like 
side effects. No matter the nature of the other party, the clay. An event can have two meanings — one the human 
changeling must appear to him without her Mask, and mind can comprehend, and one only the Fae understand. 
propose the bargain. Most changelings observe mortals for Learning to think like the Gentry, even in a small way, 
days or weeks, discerning simple tasks they can perform has changed the way the Lost interact with dreams.
to strike a bargain. The bargain is usually an ongoing task 
— a changeling might offer to clean the human’s house Painting over the canvas of a dream is a delicate 
once a week, or sew her a dress once a month, or grant her undertaking. An oneiropomp — one who walks in the 
pleasing dreams three nights a week. At that point, the dreams of others — must swim against the current of the 
changeling gains the Obliged Condition (p. 343). dreamer’s mind, engaging with his imagination to build 

currency with which to pay for the changes she wishes to 
The subject agrees to provide something in return, make to his sleeping subconscious. People dream to wres-

but it doesn’t have to be commensurate with the service tle with their demons, their fears and worries, their fond-
the changeling is providing, since the point of the bargain est wishes and their most fragile hopes. An invader here 
isn’t what the human can provide anyway. Some change- must take care not to stomp too loudly, lest she become 
lings simply ask for money or valuables, while others ask the very demon the dream is meant to excise.
for goods they can sell or trade. Clever changelings word 
their bargains so that the subject has to provide a seem- The Gates of  
ingly innocuous service or undefined payment sometime 
in the future, and build up a bank of favors. The game Ivory and Horn
mechanics of such favors, if any, are up to the Storyteller, The Lost know two paths into the realm of dreams: 
but an appropriate use would mimic the effect of a one- to the Gate of Horn and the Gate of Ivory. The Gate of Ivory 
three-dot Merit, once per story. is in the oneiropomp’s mind, the Gate of Horn in her body.

Oneiromancy The Gate of Ivory
A coin falling into a pile of rustling leaves. A famil- The Gate of Ivory is the easiest path to find. A sleep-

iar face removing a mask to reveal a stranger, only then ing changeling crosses this gate in dream form, entering 
to remove another mask and reveal a familiar face once her own dreams and turning them lucid. Her player simply 

Oneiromancy 215



needs to succeed at a Resolve + Composure roll for her •	 Finesse: Equal to Manipulation for changelings, 
character to meditate while going to sleep to reach this Wits for others. Used for Wits, Dexterity, and Ma-
state. The player may make this roll even if the change- nipulation tasks.
ling is already asleep, representing the character’s ability 
to realize she’s sleeping and take the reins, unless she suf- •	 Resistance: Equal to Composure for changelings, 
fers the Comatose Condition (p. 334). Contracts and oth- Resolve for others. Used for Resolve, Stamina, and 
er abilities work the same way in dreams that they do any- Composure tasks.
where else. The changeling can target her own eidolons 
and any allies or intruders she finds there. She can also •	 Dream Health: This trait replaces regular Health. 
practice oneiromancy on her own dreams. If she leaves For changelings, it’s equal to current Clarity + the 
her own Bastion to wander the Hedge or other Bastions, character’s normal Wyrd-based Attribute maxi-
she recovers no Willpower for that night’s rest. mum (e.g. 5 at Wyrd 3, or 6 at Wyrd 6, accord-

ing to the table on p. 101). For others, it’s equal 
The Lost (and anyone else she brings along) mani- to Resistance + that character’s normal Attribute 

fests a dream form, rather than her physical body, after maximum. Losing Dream Health imposes wound 
passing through the Gate of Ivory. The dream form has penalties just as for standard Health. When a 
no Mask, appearing in her fae mien. She uses this form to dream form inside her own Bastion is “killed” due 
interact with anything in dreams while her body remains to Dream Health loss, such as by an eidolon’s at-
in the waking world, alive but unconscious. tack, the character simply physically wakes up. A 

Instead of the nine Attributes physical characters dream form “killed” in someone else’s Bastion or 
use, characters in dream form use the three simplified in the Hedge wakes as well, but she also suffers 
traits of Power, Finesse, and Resistance, as follows: the Lethargic Condition (p. 342). If her “death” is 
•	 Power: Equal to Presence for changelings, Intelli- the direct result of a dreamweaving action or other 

gence for others. Used for Intelligence, Strength, fae magic inside any Bastion, she suffers the Soul 
and Presence tasks. Shocked Condition (p. 345) when she wakes up 

instead; the intrusion of Arcadian whim imposes 
an otherworldly gravity upon a dream, dragging 

216 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



all its inhabitants’ souls that much closer to Faerie Dreamweaving
for a time. When a changeling takes more Dream 
Health damage in a single attack than her Attri- The origin of the word “oneiromancy” lies in divina-
bute maximum, the excess damage also applies to tion through dream interpretation, but changelings can 
her Clarity track (p. 105). shape a dreamscape in much the same way they shape the 

Hedge, pushing and pulling at the fabric of psychoactive 
A changeling can take other individuals with her surroundings through the power of their Wyrd to make 

when she passes through the Gate of Ivory, as long as changes to a person’s mind. They can’t directly impact 
they’re asleep. She must be in physical contact with all someone’s psyche this way, but dreams are how people 
potential guests and spend one Glamour point per guest, process emotions and deal with subconscious impuls-
and she must still succeed at the usual Resolve + Compo- es and traumas. A changeling who changes a sleeper’s 
sure roll and fall asleep to pass through the Gate. Those dream also changes the way his mind copes with his sub-
she takes along need not roll. Changelings and other fae liminal thoughts.
can unconsciously spend a point of Glamour of their own 
to resist this if they like, while others may spend a Will- Eidolons and Props
power point to do so. Other beings with Supernatural Tol- An eidolon is a dream actor, a character that is part of a 
erance traits may engage in a Clash of Wills to avoid this dream and doesn’t exist outside that context. Most eidolons 
cost. Anyone the changeling brings through the Gate this are just set dressing, extras in the play that unfolds as the 
way ends up in dream form, traveling her dreams with dream progresses. Some of them are more important, repre-
her. They can leave her Bastion by finding the exit and senting thoughts the dreamer wrestles with or specific strong 
either stepping out into the Dreaming Roads or physically emotions. An eidolon may be a symbol for the sleeper’s fear 
waking up; but unless they’re capable of oneiromancy on that her mother will ridicule her in front of her friends at an 
their own, finding the exit requires muddling through the upcoming party, but not for fear of her mother or of ridicule 
dream’s narrative. in general. Changelings can interact with eidolons as though 

Changelings and other lucid dreamers can physi- they were ordinary people or creatures, and in fact must do 
cally wake up from their own dreams at will. Waking up so if they want to change anything inside the dream.
from someone else’s requires finding the Bastion’s exit, Objects and creatures in dreams are props that have 
which counts as an important prop, and making a Re- identical traits to real-world versions of themselves. Like 
solve + Composure roll, which the Bastion’s Fortification eidolons, they can be important or unimportant. The line 
(p. 221) might contest if the dreamer doesn’t want them between eidolons and props can be fuzzy; some prop-like 
to leave. The roll alone suffices for a character wandering things might be eidolons if they’re more like characters. 
the Dreaming Roads in dream form. Dream form onei- A talking dog, a nightmare monster on a rampage, and a 
ropomps can’t roll to wake safely from anywhere else, in- sapient computer could all be eidolons.
cluding elsewhere in the Hedge, as it lies a distance too far The importance of an eidolon or prop isn’t based on its 
from dreamscape and thoughtform. role in the current scene, but rather on whether or not it rep-

A changeling with the Dreamsteps Contract (p. 144) resents something from the dreamer’s mind. A locked door 
can pass through the Gate of Ivory directly into someone might seem crucial to a changeling trying to break into a 
else’s dreams instead. house, but unless it represents the dreamer’s inability to let 

The Gate of Horn new friends get close to him, it’s an unimportant prop.
Eidolons use the traits for Hedge ghosts (p. 246), 

The Gate of Horn is more elusive. It exists as a except that they don’t have frailties or any of the four 
Hedgeway within the Hedge itself. A traveler must navi- common powers all Hedge ghosts possess, and their Nu-
gate the Hedge normally (p. 200) and find it to pass mina are more focused on their identities and functions 
through. All the routes to the Dreaming Roads are the within the dream. Important eidolons have a Wyrd rating 
Gate of Horn, refracted across the fabric of the Hedge equal to the Fortification rating of the dreamer’s Bastion 
to appear in many places and lead to many Dreaming (p. 221). Eidolons that are just extras have a Wyrd rating 
Roads. of 1 instead, and have no Willpower or Glamour to spend 

The character who passes through the Gate of Horn on Numina or anything else.
is not asleep, but awake, and physically present in the The dreamer himself is not an eidolon, but an oneiro-
Hedge. He uses his normal Attributes and traits, rather pomp in his own right with a dream form, although non-
than those of a dream form. Someone who’s physically changeling dreamers can’t engage in oneiromancy even in 
present in a dream must find the Bastion’s exit, as above, their own dreams. “Killing” the dreamer ends the dream 
and successfully pass through it to leave, but the Resolve immediately, destroying the Bastion; see p. 222 for more 
+ Composure roll is not required. about this.

Oneiromancy 217



Playing a Role up a role as a police officer at a child’s birthday party, the 
Shaping a dream is a little like shaping the Hedge attendees react as they would in reality. The changeling 

(p. 204). A changeling oneiropomp must engage directly could then question the child’s parents or arrest someone, 
with the ongoing scene within the dream before she can but she couldn’t act like the clown entertaining the chil-
make changes or glean secrets, and she must take up a role dren and expect the eidolons to just play along; at least, 
that matches what’s already happening there when she ar- not without shifting the dream’s paradigm more directly, 
rives. She needs to influence the situation inside the dream and drawing unnatural attention to herself.
so that it will present her with the symbolic opportunity she Subtle Shifts
needs to accomplish her goals. For instance, if she wants to 
force the dreamer’s mind to cough up a repressed memory, Without dreamweaving, the existing narrative of the 
she must guide the scene through normal actions — Social dream limits the changeling’s influence, as above. However, 
maneuvering, exploration, assassinating eidolons, etc. — to she can spend Glamour to subtly tweak facts about the dream 
find an opportunity to uncover lost knowledge. She might and nudge events in a direction that better suits her purpose.
pose as an archaeologist looking for funding for a new dig, In game terms, dreamweaving works just like Hedges-
a private investigator offering her services to a jilted lover, pinning (p. 204), with a few exceptions. A dreamweaving 
or a cat burglar stealing state secrets from the president’s character takes mundane actions as normal, depending on 
office. Then she must convince the dream that she’s suc- how she plans to symbolically create opportunities, but unlike 
ceeded at being whatever she says she is, by persuading the in the Hedge proper, all such actions she takes suffer a dice 
eidolons to grant funding, solving the lover’s mystery, or penalty equal to the dreamer’s Composure. This is true even 
successfully making off with the files. in her own dreams — she must fight her own subconscious 

A dream responds to these actions in expected ways mind if she wants to meddle. Whenever her player generates 
unless a changeling meddles with them. If she tries to take successes beyond what’s necessary to succeed at any mundane 

Oneiromancy — Subtle Shifts
Success 
Cost Effect
1+ Give any eidolon or oneiropomp an equipment bonus to their next roll equal to successes spent, to a 

maximum of +5; represents creating or fortuitously finding one of the five types of equipment (p. 196) on 
the fly

1+ Give any eidolon or oneiropomp a general and ballistic armor rating equal to successes spent for one 
turn, to a maximum of +5

1+ Create one or more weapons from whole cloth, of a total Availability equal to successes spent
1 Learn whether an eidolon is an extra or important
1 Learn all the traits of an eidolon extra, or one trait of an important eidolon
1 Replace one kind of eidolon extra with another of the same general type, like replacing a child with an 

old man or a bus driver with a soldier; or remove one entirely from the scene
1 Replace one kind of unimportant prop not currently in use by an important eidolon or oneiropomp with 

another of the same Size, like replacing a car with a unicorn or a pair of pants with a sword; or remove 
one entirely from the scene

1 Introduce a minor beneficial twist of luck or complication for any eidolon or oneiropomp
2 Introduce a personal Tilt for any eidolon or oneiropomp
2 Introduce a hazard to the scene, such as carnivorous grass or a swarm of bees
3 Learn one thing about the dreamer that’s not a deliberately concealed secret, like one of his traits, his 

address, one thing he knows about a certain subject, or the name of his closest friend
3 Make a minor location change, like moving the action outdoors from inside or onto the roof from the 

ground
4 Introduce a temporary Condition for any eidolon or oneiropomp, which fades without resolution when 

the target leaves the dream or ceases to exist
4 Turn any eidolon’s or oneiropomp’s failure into a dramatic failure

218 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



action, she may immediately spend one Glamour and allo- Paradigm Shifts
cate those extra successes to dreamweaving. She can spend Paradigm shifts in oneiromancy use the same system 
dreamweaving successes to change facts about the dream, or that they do in Hedgespinning (p. 204), except that ev-
learn things about the dream itself or the dreamer. Dramatic ery mundane action is considered a dreamweaving action, 
failures don’t incite Bedlam, as they do in the Hedge. as above. Changelings don’t receive extra dreamweaving 

Subtle dreamweaving effects can be as fantastical as successes for paradigm shifts that align with their Thread, 
the changeling likes, as long as they’re still relatively small nor do they gain emotional Conditions at the end of the 
changes to the dream. Unlike in the Hedge, they aren’t scene. Hedge locals can’t sense what happens inside a 
limited to changes to the physical environment. Players Bastion. However, a changeling can use her kenning 
should describe their changes in terms of what’s actually (p. 107), with a dice bonus equal to her Empathy, to sense 
happening to the characters and props in the scene — for whether a dreamer’s Bastion has been the target of dream-
instance, granting armor might make a bulletproof vest weaving within the last week.
appear on the changeling’s person, or it might make a gi- In her own dreams, a changeling with Wyrd 6+ 
ant hand sprout from the ground to grab the bullet out of achieves exceptional success on three successes rather 
the air. Learning information about the dreamer via shifts than five for purposes of enacting paradigm shifts (but 
involves actions that prompt the eidolons or the dream it- not for purposes of the usual results of whatever action 
self to give things away; for example, an oneiropomp may generated the dreamweaving successes).
weave the sound of a text message alert into the dream 
and wait for the dreamer to instinctively enter a password Shift Conditions
into his smartphone, which the changeling can observe.

Any fool with a knife could conceivably cut some-
Below is a list of example dreamweaving effects a one’s heart out, but only a surgeon can leave the patient 

player can spend individual successes to accomplish. The ready for a transplant and recovery afterward. Enacting 
Storyteller may allow others on a case-by-case basis. a paradigm shift in a dream is jarring to the dreamer’s 

Oneiromancy — Paradigm Shifts
Success 
Cost Effect
1+ Harvest points of Glamour from the dreamer’s mind equal to (successes spent + 2)
2+ Bank a number of successes to add to a later shift within the scene and current Bastion (subtle or 

paradigm) equal to successes spent minus one, to a maximum of five banked successes
3 Replace an eidolon extra or unimportant prop with something drastically different, like replacing a 

person with a rampaging giant or a chair with a dinosaur
3 Introduce a major beneficial twist of luck or complication for any eidolon or oneiropomp
5 Introduce an Environmental Tilt
5 Force another oneiropomp to engage in a Clash of Wills with you if they try to physically wake up within 

the next turn; failure means they fail to wake up
6 Learn a deliberately concealed secret about the dreamer, like who he works for, what kind of 

supernatural creature he is, or the location of his most prized possession; if another character’s magic 
conceals the secret, the changeling must win a Clash of Wills

7 Introduce a Persistent Condition for any eidolon or oneiropomp, which fades without resolution when the 
target leaves the dream or ceases to exist

7 Completely change the scenery, like moving the action from a parking lot to a sewer or from a city to the 
inside of a volcano 

8 Ignore the effects of a single attack or ignore a Tilt’s effects for one turn
8 Perform one impossible action the changeling couldn’t normally perform, like fly to a single destination, 

survive decapitation if it happens within the next turn, or turn someone into a cockroach
9 Find something important, like a Huntsman’s hidden heart, the dreamer’s representation of a specific 

emotion or thought, etc.
9 Transfer a Shift Condition onto another oneiropomp present in the scene

Oneiromancy 219



the Comatose Condition, p. 334). Doing so in the dreams 
of other lucid dreamers may not inflict them either, at the 

Advantages of  Storyteller’s discretion.
Oneiromancy The Dreaming Roads

Many of the effects a changeling can achieve 
through oneiromancy could be more efficient- The Hedge is the barrier separating stone and wa-
ly done another way, such as through Con- ter from the fabric of unbound desires, and it has hidden 
tracts or Social maneuvering face-to-face. Us- paths that lead into dreams. These enchanted and furtive 
ing oneiromancy grants certain advantages, trods wend their way through wonders and perils, lead-
though. First and foremost is never having to ing into dreamscapes just as the Hedge fades into Faerie. 
let your target know who’s messing with them, No one is certain why the Hedge connects to human-
and being able to manipulate people from ity’s dreams, other than to cite the uncanny similarities 
the comfort of your own home. Meeting the between its psychoactive properties and the human sub-
Gentry or a Huntsman on a dream battlefield conscious. These trods are the Dreaming Roads, and the 
helps even the odds for you, especially if you fae know how to walk them into the dreams of Earth. A 
bring friends. You can even turn the eidolons careless or unlucky oneiropomp might find herself stray-
(or the dreamer!) against your enemy with 
Bedlam, Contracts, or shift effects. Defeating ing into Arcadia itself through one of many hidden fae 
another oneiropomp in battle and imposing doors, if she finds the Hedge proper and walks on out into 
the Lethargic or Soul Shocked Condition on the waking world.
them can be worth it, too. An ever-moonlit sky covers a Dreaming Road as it 

passes beneath trembling tree-things, through sparkling 
Some courts take to dream combat — or its meadows, and over jagged, tooth-like rocks. The wan-
more old-fashioned name, oneiromachy — to 
resolve internal disputes or determine pecking derer’s footsteps and the murmured whispers of sleep-
order without having to inflict actual violence ing minds play backdrop to the fractured soundscape of 
upon each other. Finally, using oneiromancy dream fragments, mingling with the occasional silver-
on yourself or your allies can achieve things chime baying of a Huntsman’s war hounds. Sometimes, 
it would be hard to do for each other other- a great and powerful beast crosses the path on its way 
wise, and can build trust as motley-mates ex- down roads where the Fae cannot follow. Sometimes, 
pose their darkest nightmares to one another. a lost and confused mortal walks the hidden paths on 

his own.
The Dreaming Roads are mysterious avenues where 

escaped nightmares and shards of human fantasy roam, 
mind and draws the eidolons’ attention to the changeling and so traversing one requires speed and attentiveness. 
beyond the role she’s currently playing, inflicting Shift Goblins make the rounds here, collecting dream trin-
Conditions (p. 336). kets to peddle on carts of obsidian and ivory. Huntsmen 

If your character has no Shift Conditions, the next para- sometimes travel the main thoroughfares of the Wayward 
digm shift she enacts inflicts the Dream Infiltrator Condi- Paths in pursuit of their quarry, and even the Gentry see 
tion. If she already has it, the next paradigm shift she enacts fit to stroll between the shores of oblivion. Each Bastion’s 
upgrades it to the Dream Intruder Condition instead. If she dream spills out into the surrounding area, so a traveler 
already has that one, the next paradigm shift she enacts up- has some idea of what she’s getting into as she approaches 
grades it to the Dream Assailant Condition. such a stretch: a dreamer stuck in a glass coffin in the 

A changeling who has the Dream Assailant Condi- woods imposes a dark forest filled with the baleful yellow 
tion and tries to enact another paradigm shift risks vio- eyes of hidden predators, while a dreamer flying among 
lently waking the dreamer. When she does so, roll her skyscrapers creates a shining metropolis where the sun 
current Clarity + Composure, contested by the dreamer’s glints from infinitely tall steel beams.
current Willpower + Resolve. If the changeling wins, the Navigating the  
dream continues as is and she can spend successes to en-
act the shift as normal. If the dreamer wins, he wakes Dreaming Roads
immediately, destroying the Bastion; see p. 222 for more All Dreaming Roads are trods with ratings between 
on this. The changeling may forgo this roll to deliberately 3 and 5 (p. 201), and characters navigate them as nor-
destroy the Bastion, if she likes. mal. However, Hedgespinning doesn’t work here; the Lost 

A changeling enacting paradigm shifts in her own believe it’s because the Roads are a remnant of the time 
dream never inflicts Shift Conditions unless she is some- before the Gentry came, shunted into the Hedge from old 
how unaware of her own situation (such as while suffering Arcadia but not truly a part of it.

220 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Just off the road, the terrain stretches only a short 
distance before crumbling into the lunatic logic of strang-
er dreams. These wilder places make poor shelter, leading Stranger Paths
wayfarers down eerie rabbit holes to places beyond the 
Hedge — perhaps even beyond Arcadia. In truth, Bas- The edges of a Dreaming Road are unusual 
tions are the only reliable hiding spots when trumpets opportunities for the Storyteller to introduce 
sound and laughter like ashes and rust echoes beneath crossovers into realms associated with other 

game lines, anywhere that an unrestrained 
the never-changing sky. Even the weakest mortal Bastion dream path might intrude. Some potential 
provides some sanctuary, or at least a shortcut to else- destinations include the wild corners of Old 
where. Desperate changelings may flee into the surround- Arcadia, where the Fae have no purchase; a 
ing chaos, but a traveler who strays off the beaten path clockwork nightmare of the God-Machine’s 
risks wandering into an inhuman dreamscape or an alien occult industry, where flesh-and-metal angels 
realm of existence. Treat anything off the path that isn’t guard enormous gears lubricated by the 
part of a Bastion’s territory as Thorns (p. 202). blood of the poor; the hidden chambers of the 

Primordial Dream, wherein dwell terrible and 
Bastions ancient things; the astral realm of the Temenos 

or the Anima Mundi, where archetypical dei-
To enter dreams requires finding and breaching Bas- ties and ideals given flesh inhabit cyclopean 

tions, the metaphorical sanctity of the human mind as structures and mystical landscapes; or the 
translated into literal fortresses along the Dreaming depths of a mythical Underworld, where the 
Roads. These sanctuaries take many shapes, from crystal dead walk and the susurrus of ocean waves 
sarcophagi to silver gates where another world peeks out beckons around every corner. A changeling 
between the bars, from tiny walnut shells to grand palaces may even be able to reach an Oneiros — the 
of ebony and brass. A dreamer’s Bastion may take a com- astral realm that resides within a person’s soul 
pletely different form from one night to the next, depend- — if the circumstances are right; but it is not a 
ing on what he dreams. dream, and fae oneiromancy doesn’t work 

there, despite the name.
A Bastion always allows an oneiropomp inside if 

she has an active invitation, which takes the form of a 
pledge (p. 209). Mortal Bastions also have Keys, just like 
entrances to the Hedge do (p. 199), which allow some- frequent oneiropomps learn to quickly judge the strength 
one to enter as though she had permission. Such a Key of any particular Bastion. Like other mundane actions, 
reflects the dreamer’s personality, the nature of his Bas- reading a Bastion’s Fortification can generate dreamweav-
tion, and the contents of his dream at the time. Other- ing successes as long as the changeling is within its ter-
wise, a changeling must break into the Bastion, engaging ritory.
its defenses in an active struggle using dreamweaving, as 
above — once a changeling steps off the Dreaming Road Dice Pool: Manipulation + Empathy
onto a Bastion’s territory, she’s on the fringes of the dream Action: Instant
itself and oneiromancy becomes possible. A mortal Bas- Roll Results
tion that contains a Huntsman’s heart (p. 264) has no Key 
other than the Huntsman themselves. Success: The changeling determines the Bastion’s 

Fortification rating, gauging its defenses and observing its 
A Bastion has a Fortification rating equal to the eidolons.

owner’s Resolve + Supernatural Tolerance. Dreamweav-
ing can increase the Fortification rating beyond this base Exceptional Success: As success, and the change-
rating (p. 337). An intruder can win her way into a Bas- ling may enact a paradigm shift, as usual.
tion with a paradigm shift, but the successes spent on the Failure: The changeling cannot determine the For-
shift must exceed the Bastion’s Fortification rating, which tification rating.
may require teamwork to pull off. Otherwise, she must Dramatic Failure: The changeling fails to determine 
break in the old-fashioned way, and all rolls to do so that the Fortification rating and alerts the eidolons to her in-
an eidolon doesn’t actively contest are instead contested tent to infiltrate. They step up their game, gaining the 
by the Fortification rating as a dice pool. A changeling in- 8-again quality on all rolls until the changeling either suc-
side her own Bastion may spend a Willpower point to gain cessfully breaks into the Bastion or gives up and leaves.
+2 to its Fortification rating for one turn, which affects Bastions feature eidolons from within that take the 
the traits of all the important eidolons within as normal. shape of guardians outside. The sanctuary nature of such 

Since Bastions can provide impromptu shelters a place empowers them to defend it against intruders. The 
against unexpected dangers on the Dreaming Roads, forms of these eidolons reflect the form of the Bastion, 

Oneiromancy 221



and they take on a sinister appearance when intruders a witch-stone and it allows the bearer to discern the true 
are near. A schoolyard Bastion’s eidolons might appear nature of the world around her. They have become tokens, 
as troublesome students with vacant eyes or tyrannical the physical representation of eons-old pacts between the 
teachers that blow shrill whistles, while a war-zone Bas- material and the fae.
tion’s eidolons may assume the shapes of faceless, helmed Tokens are extremely valuable in changeling society. 
opponents or twisted abominations bristling with armor They grant powers the Lost might not otherwise have 
and weaponry. A changeling’s eidolons may even imitate access to, hold pledges, and occasionally grant a heart’s 
her Keeper. desire. As with all things fae, however, this is not free. 

A Bastion’s End Changelings wake up missing shoes, skin, or Clarity after 
using tokens. Using one asks a price of Glamour, or a bit 

A Bastion only exists for the span of a single dream. of heart’s blood if Glamour doesn’t suit.
When the dreamer wakes, whether naturally or because a A changeling spends an instant action and one 
paradigm shift jarred them awake, the Bastion crumbles Glamour point to activate a token, by default, and it 
and disappears, its territory relinquished back to the sur- stays active for the scene unless indicated otherwise. A 
rounding dreamscape. An oneiropomp still inside the token has three parts: the effect, the catch, and the draw-
Bastion has little time to find the exit and escape before back. The effect also includes its Mask and mien; unlike 
that happens. Some Bastions have more than one exit, changelings, tokens appear especially mundane even to 
opening out onto different Roads depending on how their fae beings until they’re activated, revealing their true fae 
dreams harmonize with the snatches of nightmare or rev- natures to any who can see through the Mask. A token 
erie that lie along each. satchel might cling to its carrier’s shoulder with myriad 

When a dreamer wakes, a changeling has a number tiny goblin hands and open onto a yawning toothy maw, 
of turns equal to (10 – the dreamer’s Willpower dots) to to the right eyes. A token’s catch is an alternative to 
find the exit. A dreamer with a strong will wakes swiftly, spending Glamour, demanding some personal sacrifice; it 
while the weak-willed have trouble separating dreams works much like a Contract’s Loophole, but anyone can 
from reality with alacrity. Oneiromancers can find the use the token with the catch, not just fae creatures. Savvy 
exit instantly with a paradigm shift, as above, or they can mortals always ask, “what’s the catch?” Thus, changelings 
seek it within the narrative of the dream, although as it refer to it this way. The drawback is what happens as a 
swiftly loses cohesion the dice penalty they take to mun- consequence of using the token. No amount of trickery 
dane actions becomes either the dreamer’s Composure or or magic can avoid the drawback — using a token means 
the number of turns that have passed since the crumbling agreeing to its terms of quid pro quo, and the Wyrd always 
began, whichever is higher. exacts its price. Such is the magic of Faerie.

A changeling in dream form has one last chance to A changeling can create or acquire a token delib-
physically wake if she doesn’t manage to escape before the erately by leaving an object in the Hedge for a period 
Bastion crumbles — she may willingly accept the Lethar- of time, swearing enough pacts on an object, or stealing 
gic (if the dreamer woke naturally) or Soul Shocked (if a an object from the True Fae or their servants. Anything 
paradigm shift woke him) Condition to do so immediate- that’s spent time in the Hedge or in Arcadia can become 
ly. A changeling who traveled through the Gate of Horn a token, though, if it ends up mattering enough to some-
has no such recourse. one. It could be nothing more special to begin with than 

Any oneiropomp who doesn’t escape is flung else- the grass a changeling slept in when she grew too ex-
where. The specifics are up to the Storyteller to decide, hausted to flee anymore, but the bits that clung to her 
but usually such unfortunates end up somewhere among clothes when she escaped became tokens because they’d 
the Thorns, in someone else’s Bastion, or even across the become personal for her. Players and Storytellers should 
threshold into Arcadia. Occasionally, an oneiropomp ca- decide together how each token a character uses fits into 
reens all the way back to the mortal world — if she was in the story.
dream form at the time, she exists in Twilight and must For non-fae, figuring out how to operate a token in 
return to her body before her player can make the roll the absence of magical insight (or being told) requires 
to wake her up. Some changelings tell tales of ending up an extended Intelligence + Occult roll, which requires 
in more alien places, populated by things beyond even double the token’s dot rating in total successes, and each 
faerie ken. roll represents an hour of research and experimentation. 

T A dramatic failure at any point means the token shat-
okens ters. While figuring out how to deliberately operate a to-
Changelings aren’t the only bearers of Arcadian ken takes hours or even days, accidentally activating one 

magics. Leave a coin too long in the Hedge and it be- is a common occurrence. Fae magic has a strange pull 
comes a gambler’s best friend. Swear enough pledges on on mortals, so one might pick up a “lucky coin” only to 

222 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



discover that it does indeed change her luck if she rubs it paths to grab at a worn shoe or a page from a book, a 
three times. A character doesn’t need to be a supernatu- necklace or shiny coin could tempt them. Goblins look for 
ral being to use a token. She merely has to be able to pay things to sell or trade. Privateers might steal it as a means 
the price. of fueling Contracts to hunt down a mark. An escaping 

Contact with iron destroys a token completely. changeling might grab the blossoming token, mistaking it 
for a message from home. Furthermore, if the changeling 

Forged in Thorns decides to secret it somewhere far enough off the path to 
limit the chance of discovery, she risks losing herself or 

The easiest and most common way to create a token is the token within the Thorns.
to let it sit in the Hedge for a certain amount of time. This 
process, which some changelings jokingly refer to as “mari- Second, if the changeling leaves the token to mari-
nating,” merely requires that the changeling take an object nate long enough, it picks up the ambient energies of the 
to the Thorns, somewhere off the path. When changelings Hedge. This, combined with the memories the changeling 
knowingly create tokens with this method, they must use ob- associates with the object, determines what sort of token 
jects that mean something to them — their lucky coin, their results. The changeling has a certain amount of say in 
mother’s graduation shoes, a lock of their lover’s hair. Any what it does by choosing the item, but beyond that, the 
personally meaningful item could turn into a token, though, Wyrd does what it will. The knife the changeling used for 
given enough time in the Thorns. Some changelings report her first kill can never heal, but a knife the Spring Queen 
coming back to the Hedge months after their flight to free- used to sacrifice herself to prevent her Keeper from find-
dom and finding that a scrap of clothing that snagged on a ing the freehold might. A love letter from fourth grade 
thornbush has become a war-banner. likely won’t enhance the reader’s Expression much, but a 

love letter from the wife who died before the changeling 
While this method does not require the changeling made it back is much more powerful — or it might do 

to actively do anything other than leave the token in the something else entirely. Though the character is largely at 
Hedge, it presents two difficulties. First, she must prevent the Wyrd’s mercy, the player and Storyteller should work 
the token from being lost or stolen. Though it’s unlikely together to either design a new token or pick one from the 
(but not unheard of) that someone will stray from the list of sample tokens, below.

Tokens 223



System: A token created this way has a dot rating token, whereas hostile oaths are good for weapons. This 
equal to the number of full chapters a character leaves method of creation may take longer, however, and many 
the item in the Hedge. The Storyteller rolls a dice pool changelings are leery of participating in the creation of 
equal to that number of chapters at the end to represent an oath-forged token. Such tokens serve as links to those 
whether passersby left it unmolested or whether someone involved in the oath, which some beings can use to more 
picked it up; add one die if the changeling failed a roll to easily find or affect them — the stronger the token, the 
carefully hide or conceal the item (or didn’t bother to try), stronger the link.
or two dice if she dramatically failed such a roll. If the Sto- The Lost do not swear oaths lightly, and motleys or 
ryteller succeeds, the character finds her token gone when even entire courts jealously guard tokens created in this 
she returns. The player takes a Beat, and must investigate fashion. Further oaths sworn on an oath-forged token 
the theft and track the culprit down. Failed investigative grant special benefits to all involved, and the token itself 
rolls should lead the character to find the token anyway, is less breakable. A token going missing can send a free-
but present more dangerous or complicated challenges to hold into an uproar, as changelings accuse each other of 
getting it back. Storytellers can use the full investigation conspiracy, theft, and darker things. Allowing someone 
system (p. 194) if they like. new to use an oath-forged token is often a matter of great 

Sample Hedge-Forged Token: trust or great urgency.

The Soul-Compass (•••) System: To become a token, the item must have (de-
sired dots x 3) oaths sworn upon it. For example, a five-dot 

This compass might have been a Boy Scout must- token must have 15 oaths sworn upon it, a four-dot token 
have, or an antique, or a prized gift from the local nature must have 12, and so on. These oaths need not necessarily 
center’s summer program. It appears to be a cheap, nonop- involve the same participants each time.
erational toy until infused with Glamour. In its true form, Oaths sworn upon such a token reward their par-
it is a bright silver compass with an iridescent face and a ticipants for abiding by their terms. Once per chapter, 
needle that looks like a single, wickedly sharp thorn. The whenever a character takes a dangerous or risky action 
face of the compass is blank, except for discolorations that in service to fulfilling the spirit of the oath, she recovers 
suggest old blood. The needle points toward the bearer’s Glamour points equal to the dot rating of the token. An 
closest Icon, or toward the Icon of any changeling who oath-forged token adds its dot rating to its Structure.
drips one lethal damage’s worth of blood onto the face. 
The Soul-Compass will not tell distance, nor altitude, nor Anyone holding an oath-forged token can spend a 
danger; merely the direction in which the bearer must go Glamour to learn the terms and participants’ identities 
to find it. of the last oath sworn upon it that she didn’t already 

know about. A fae creature holding the token can spend 
Catch: The user must prick her hand with the needle a Glamour to add dice equal to its dot rating to one roll 

of the compass, taking one point of lethal damage (in ad- they make to track or find any of the oathsworn involved 
dition to any blood used to calibrate it to find another in its creation, or to affect them with Contracts and oth-
changeling’s Icon). er magic.

Drawback: Once the user finds an Icon, she gains An oath-forged token purchased as a Merit costs one 
the Lost Condition (p. 342). dot more than its rating.

By This I Swear Sample Oath-Forged Token: 
Putting enough incidental Wyrd magic into an ob- The Seeing Stone (•)

ject turns it into a token, but the Hedge isn’t the only Created by a motley in a city where the shadows hid 
source. Changelings binding themselves into motleys or more than just loyalists, this fist-sized rock looks like 
courts, or simply together in mutual pacts of friendship, nothing more than a piece of soft gray shale. When ac-
is an ancient and powerful use of the Wyrd. Changelings tivated, however, a perfectly round hole appears in the 
can swear oaths upon an object until it becomes a thing of middle, with arcane sigils scratched on the inside. The 
pacts itself, creating a token forged of promises. stone reveals whether anyone the user can see through it 

One oath is not enough to create a token. Some re- is a supernatural being, with no further detail.
quire up to 15. Many Lost prefer this method to Hedge- Catch: The user must tell an important secret about 
forging, as the participants can actively direct the token’s himself to someone who didn’t already know it.
creation and determine what the outcome will be. The 
types of pledges sworn on the item define what it can do, Drawback: Whether because he feels threatened by the 
so many changelings take care to only swear oaths of a monsters around him or abandoned knowing no fellow fae 
similar nature on the future token, to avoid unpredictable are nearby, the user gains the Shaken Condition (p. 344).
results. A motley pact sworn on a rope creates a binding 

224 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



The Master’s Keys (p. 342) until someone else blows the horn (ending the 
Condition without granting a Beat) or the Condition re-

Some tokens are created by stranger hands, by crea- solves normally.
tures that view humans as little more than disobedient 
toys made to while away a rainy afternoon. True Fae make Other Sample Tokens
tokens of incredible value and rarity. These tokens are 
always something the Others swore strange and byzantine Below is a list of sample tokens. They could be Hedge-
oaths upon, though they don’t always care about these ob- forged, oath-forged, or stolen, depending on the needs of 
jects or even remember they exist until they’re missing. the story and the players. Feel free to also use them as a 
Thus, a token stolen from a Keeper could just as easily be model for creating your own tokens.
an empty photo frame left gathering dust in an attic or the Hedgespun Item (• to •••••)
manacle broken from a changeling’s wrist as a precious 
sword locked away in the royal armory. Though they are a kind of token, Hedgespun items 

don’t require activation; thus, they have no Glamour cost 
Stolen tokens are powerful, but extremely dangerous. and no catch, and they are always active. A Hedgespun 

A True Fae will stop at nothing to get one back even if item’s Mask always appears as something lovely or impres-
it didn’t realize what it had before it was gone. Taken by sive. A cape lined with starlight appears to be a fine black 
a fleeing slave or conniving motley, the purloined prize coat with a shiny lining. A dress made of dancing flames is 
drives the Fae to swear a new oath, to punish those who a beautiful evening gown decorated in bold sequined pat-
dared to flout its hospitality. Whole freeholds have en- terns. Glamour armor always resembles protective gear of 
dured a Wild Hunt because some Fairest decided to steal some kind, such as football pads or a soldier’s flak jacket. 
her Keeper’s hairbrush on the way out. A sword whose surface reflects a brilliant sunrise in its 

Alternatively, a True Fae might give a changeling a mien hides behind a Mask that always seems to catch the 
token. This is always a poisoned apple of a gift. The Keep- light just so.
er’s reasons are rarely clear, but it plans to get the treasure For each dot of its rating, the item gains one of the 
back from its little toy, one way or the other. following benefits. The same benefit may stack up to three 

System: A token stolen from the Fae costs one Merit times.
dot fewer than its rating, to a minimum of one dot; how-
ever, each time a character uses the token, she gains the •	 Extraordinary Equipment: an appropriate +1 
Paranoid Condition (p. 344). If she already has this Condi- equipment bonus, armor rating, or weapon damage 
tion, upgrade it to the Hunted Condition (p. 342) instead. modifier

Sample Stolen Token: The •	 Improved Alacrity: +2 to the user’s Initiative and 
Aurochs Horn (•••••) Speed

A Summer courtier stole this item of dread and ter- •	 Increased Durability: +1 Durability
rible power from a Huntsman who came to claim him. Drawback: Hedgespun items are flashy and attention 
In its dormant state, it looks like a cracked steer’s horn, grabbing, and any roll to go unnoticed in plain sight or de-
good for display, but not much else. When activated, flect attention away from the character while she uses one 
it becomes a massive, curly ram’s horn, hollow and in- automatically fails, granting a Beat to her player. Hedgespun 
laid with gold. The inside is gnarled and covered with items become irritable and refuse to cooperate if used by 
wicked-looking blades, looking more like a thornbush non-fae beings. They chafe, operate erratically, or otherwise 
made out of the horn’s bone than anything else. The get in the way during any task that requires concentration or 
user must spend the requisite Glamour, then blow on social interaction, imposing a −1 penalty.
the horn. It emits an awful sound, like battle trumpets 
and the screaming of children, and blasts open all doors Ace in The Hole (•)
to the Hedge within one mile. Creatures of any type 
may stumble through in either direction without hav- This token appears as a worn playing card when dor-
ing to spend any Glamour — though they may not find mant. Active, it becomes a glowing tarot card with thorns 
their way back again. growing from the back. Applied to a lock, it downgrades 

the roll result of any attempt to pick that lock by one level 
Catch: The user must impale his tongue on the to- (a failure to a dramatic failure, a success to a failure, etc.). 

ken’s inner protrusions, taking one point of lethal dam- Even if a fleeing changeling only applies it to one lock on 
age. He gains the Mute Condition (p. 343) until that a door with multiple locks, one activation applies to all of 
damage heals. them. The effect lasts until a pursuer or thief successfully 

Drawback: Any Huntsmen in the area know exactly picks the lock, but it can only affect one locked portal or 
who blew the horn. The user gains the Hunted Condition object at a time.

Tokens 225



Catch: The user must tear the card in half before ap- achieves exceptional success on three successes instead 
plying it. While it still works, it becomes a one-use item. of five. Should the user succeed, he gains the knowledge 

Drawback: Activating this item causes the user to he sought, about any topic he chooses. On an exceptional 
dramatically fail one future Dexterity-based roll, at the success, he gains the Informed Condition regarding the 
Storyteller’s choice. When he does, take a Beat. subject and learns more details, including things not writ-

ten down elsewhere, such as a map of booby traps in an 
Driver’s Little Helper (•) otherwise-deserted building or the Title of the True Fae 

Mobility is a major concern for changelings, so a to- who kidnapped his friend.
ken that can get them from one place to another easily is Catch: The knowledge the user seeks must pertain 
useful. Normally, this appears as a stale air freshener, a set to turning the tables on someone who has a significant 
of ratty fuzzy dice, a broken GPS, or even glove-compart- advantage over him, such as via the Embarrassing Secret 
ment detritus — anything that would naturally appear in (p. 338) or Leveraged (p. 342) Condition.
a car. Once activated, this token becomes a little shinier Drawback: The next person reading the book knows 
and more useful. The GPS comes to life, the air fresh- exactly who read it last and what they were searching for. 
ener emits the scent of frozen blue roses, etc. The Driver’s This is by user, not use — if one changeling uses the book 
Little Helper lets the driver achieve exceptional success three times in a row, and the goblin who stole it from him 
on three successes instead of five on rolls to handle the uses it next, that goblin knows exactly what he was look-
vehicle, and removes the untrained penalty. ing for those three times. If this causes harm or danger for 

Catch: The user must steal the vehicle from someone the character, take a Beat.
actively driving it at the time. The Ghost Waltz (••)

Drawback: At the end of the scene, the vehicle over-
heats. Smoke pours forth from the hood, and although the Hedge ghosts are thorns in the side for most change-
driver finds no other damage, the car is unusable until one lings, chasing them down for their Glamour and their 
full scene has passed. If the lack of a vehicle causes the lives. This token wards them off. It comes in many dif-
character significant harm or inconvenience, take a Beat. ferent forms: a CD, an mp3 player with only one song, a 

sheaf of written music for users who are more musically 
Golden Hairnettle (•) inclined. Played or vocalized within the Hedge, the Ghost 

Most people would not pick up a hair tie left on the Waltz sounds like a Russian dirge, but gives any Hedge 
ground. Changelings know better. In its true form, this ghosts that hear it the Disoriented Condition (p. 336).
token appears as a beautiful golden hair adornment that Catch: The user must sing along, no matter how 
weaves itself in perfectly with whatever style the user poorly or off key. This inflicts a −2 on any Stealth rolls 
wears at the time. She gains +1 to her Presence rolls, she attempts while the Ghost Waltz is active.
and once per scene, success on such a roll imposes the Drawback: The user gains the Shaken Condition after 
Swooned Condition (p. 345) on her target, as the Golden using this token, as the melodies are odd and unnerving.
Hairnettle shimmers and shines alluringly in her coif.

Catch: The user must perform a significant favor for IOU (••)
someone else without gaining anything from it to activate This token is far more valuable than it first appears. 
the token, within the same scene. Dormant, it is a dirty scrap of paper. Activated, it is a 

Drawback: The user attracts attention even when certificate embellished with gold and silver that bears 
she doesn’t want it. Her player takes a −2 penalty to all the name of the one who activated it, and smells faintly 
rolls to go unnoticed or be stealthy until she fails one; she of warm bread. Whenever the character’s Goblin Debt 
may fail one deliberately. When she does, take a Beat. would come due, such as the Storyteller cashing in on it 

to impose a penalty or gaining the Hedge Denizen Con-
Book of Things Strange and dition, he may give the IOU away to someone else in a 
Wondrous (••) way relevant to the situation to avoid the pitfalls in that 

moment. He still keeps all his Debt, but temporarily side-
Sometimes a changeling cannot just hit the library or steps its consequences. Giving the IOU away means the 

phone a friend to get the information she needs. Some- character forfeits the ability to use it again until a lunar 
times, she needs to ask the Wyrd itself. This token nor- month has passed.
mally looks like a paperback romance novel, like you’d 
find in any thrift store worth its salt. Activated, it becomes Freeholds where an IOU circulates are rife with con-
a massive grimoire, filled with strange drawings and dead stant wheeling and dealing, as everyone tries to cheat the 
languages. Flipping through the book grants the user goblins’ system just long enough to squeeze an advantage 
an Intelligence + (a relevant Mental Skill) roll, which out of it.

226 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



Catch: The user must sign his name in blood to the Red Shoes (•••)
contract, making it forever visible to anyone who uses it Not all changelings are terribly graceful or agile. Some 
after him. are downright clumsy. The Red Shoes look like uncomfort-

Drawback: The character gains the Notoriety Con- able, unfashionable, too-small shoes at first glance. When 
dition among Hedge denizens, who peg him as someone activated, they fit the wearer like a glove, and they look in-
who doesn’t pay what he owes. credibly flattering to boot — but they are always some shade 

of red. Anyone activating and wearing the Red Shoes gains 
Arisaema (•••) a +2 to any rolls involving Dexterity or Presence, and suffers 

Named after a mortal plant more commonly known a −2 to rolls involving Strength or Manipulation.
as “dragon root,” this token doesn’t look like much at first Catch: Beauty is pain. To fit into the Red Shoes, the 
glance. Its Mask is a broken machete or a dull kitchen user must contort his feet painfully, taking three points of 
knife. To someone who can see its true form, it looks like bashing damage from burst blisters and lesions.
a two-foot-long kukri with a glimmering, iridescent blade. Drawback: The shoes do not want to let go of a user, 
The wielder gains +3 dice to Dodge rolls (after doubling wishing to keep him beautiful and graceful. At the begin-
Defense) while fighting for her life. Whenever she suc- ning of each scene in which he wears them, he must spend a 
cessfully Dodges a melee attack, her attacker feels burn- Willpower point to avoid activating them; if he has no Will-
ing pain shoot up and down his arms, gaining the mod- power to do so, take a Beat. Taking them off necessitates a 
erate Poisoned Tilt. Doing so a second time against the Strength + Athletics roll. Someone else can assist him with 
same attacker within the same scene upgrades it to grave. teamwork (p. 190), but if they fail, the user involuntarily 

Catch: The user must achieve an exceptional suc- kicks his ally with an unarmed attack, as the shoes protest.
cess on a Dexterity- or Wits-based roll while wielding the 
Arisaema. Blood Pennon (••••)

Drawback: Watching someone writhe in agonies Sometimes, a simple call to arms against the Oth-
from diluted dream poison is never pleasant; the user ers or the Huntsmen is not enough. The battle against 
gains the Spooked Condition.

Tokens 227



the Wild Hunt means death, or worse, recapture. This user loses the Thread this way, or suffers other harm or 
token looks like a cheap sports-team pennant, but when loss from the attempts, take a Beat.
activated, it unfurls to become a massive scarlet banner, 
stained with the blood of long-dead enemies and flapping Crown of Thorns (•••••)
in a breeze that may or may not be there. Any changeling For many changelings, the idea of ruthlessly using an-
within sight of the Blood Pennon ignores all wound penal- other person is tantamount to becoming like a True Fae. 
ties, and her player achieves exceptional success on three For others, however, no power is enough — they resolve 
successes instead of five on attack rolls. Freeholds, courts, to become the hunter, not the hunted. This token appears 
and even some well-off motleys carry the Blood Pennon like a crown of cheap tinsel. When a changeling places it 
into battles they cannot avoid. on her head and activates it, it blossoms into a magnifi-

Catch: The user must give some of her heart’s blood cent coronet of vines, flowers, and vicious thorns.
by stabbing herself with the Blood Pennon’s sharp staff; Every turn the crown is active, the changeling must 
she may instead take the blood from a willing sacrifice. do one of the following as an instant action:
This deals one point of lethal damage and inflicts the Ber-
serk Condition (p. 334) on the one whose blood she shed. •	 Drain: The user pulls power from supernatural 

beings present in the scene, gaining one Glamour 
Drawback: Violence begets violence. Any group for each, while they each lose one point of their 

wielding the Blood Pennon is immediately obvious, in- respective power resources. She gains no Glamour 
flicting a two-die penalty to Stealth rolls. In addition, from those who have no power left to give. Non-
once the battle is over, the enemy’s minions and allies changeling users gain points of their own power 
come after the changelings in a single-minded, murderous resource instead, or Willpower if they have no such 
fury, giving everyone in the group the Hunted Condition. resource. This ability doesn’t allow a resource to 
Silver Thread (••••) exceed the user’s usual maximum. If a character’s 

resource pool empties this way, their player takes a 
Slender, but impossibly strong, threads of Arcadian sil- Beat, up to once per scene.

ver bind all captive Helldivers to their True Fae masters. Col-
lected by Darklings, Beasts, and Ogres, crafted by Wizened •	 Command: The user’s player rolls Presence + Re-
and Elementals, and plaited by the Fairest, a Silver Thread is solve + Wyrd, contested by the target’s Resolve + Su-
the collective cry of suffering of the Lost. It does not simply pernatural Tolerance, to force someone to commit any 
vanish when a wayward Helldiver breaks it. Rather, pieces single action that would not harm them. If a character 
of Silver Thread found in the Hedge are valuable tokens. harms someone they care about, breaks a promise, 
When two fae swear an oath on a piece of Silver Thread, it or reneges on a deal because of a command they fol-
binds them together for as long as the oath remains unbro- lowed, their player takes a Beat, up to once per scene.
ken, and the Thread splits into one piece for each. Once per 
chapter, should one of them activate the token and yank on •	 Banish: The user rolls her Wyrd as a dice pool, 
his Silver Thread, the other can tug back, pulling the first contested by the target’s Supernatural Tolerance 
user through to her location. The process takes five full turns (or a chance die, if they have none), to banish them 
(or 15 seconds) to complete, and can be interrupted if either to the Hedge immediately. Dramatic failure pre-
party loses contact with the Thread. vents the target from returning without aid from 

If the user is not currently part of any unbroken someone else who can open Hedge gates, even if 
oaths, he cannot use the Silver Thread to rescue others they could do it themselves normally.
from danger. However, it serves another important pur- •	 Wound: The user deals a point of lethal damage 
pose. Any Politics or Socialize roll made to negotiate with to herself, which is also inflicted onto everyone else 
a True Fae gains a +1, as the True Fae are desperate to get present in the scene, ignoring armor. No magic can 
back valuable property. heal damage the user inflicts upon herself with this 

Catch: Both users must scream their intent, imme- token. If a character falls unconscious from dam-
diately drawing attention from anyone (or anything) else age inflicted this way, their player takes a Beat, up 
in the scene. to once per scene.

Drawback: Silver Thread is literally made of silver, This token only allows beings with Clarity tracks or 
and extremely noticeable as it shines in the user’s pocket. other, equivalent traits that measure mental or metaphysi-
Anyone who sees the user while he carries it must succeed cal stability, such as Integrity, to use it. Changelings sus-
on a Resolve + Composure roll to avoid trying to acquire pect the oaths that created it were unspeakably dire.
it any way they can, making a new roll during each scene 
in which they see him. Even if they don’t know the Thread Deliberately trying to cheat the spirit of the token’s 
is there, they know he carries something they want. If the bargain, such as giving trivial commands to allies or 

228 Chapter Four: Words of Binding



passing the Crown around a motley to steal each other’s the four abilities every round while it is active. She can-
Glamour and mine Beats, prompts the Wyrd to retali- not deactivate it before the end of the scene unless she 
ate; the Storyteller decides the effects, which could range accepts the Madness Condition (p. 343); if she already has 
from a Huntsman appearing out of the Hedge to the en- it, she can’t activate the token until it’s resolved.
tire motley gaining a Condition or racking up five Goblin In addition, once the token deactivates, she suffers a 
Debt points at once. Clarity attack with a three-die pool (or equivalent break-

Catch: The user must accept a point of Goblin Debt ing point, for non-changelings). If the user suffered signifi-
in exchange for activating the Crown, as she owes the cant harm or loss while using the Crown — for instance, 
Wyrd itself for use of its destructive power. banishing an unwilling motley-mate to the Hedge, falling 

Drawback: The Crown of Thorns does not discern unconscious from self-inflicted damage, or damaging a re-
friend from foe. As noted above, the user must use one of lationship by commanding an ally — take a Beat.

Tokens 229



Part V

Lucy
I’ve always prided myself on being perceptive.
Stella and Susan were paddling around in the tub, and James was sitting on a stool next to me, coo-

ing at them. When I looked to my side, there was a man whose glasses were sliding down his nose. When 
I turned slightly past, I could see our reflections in the bathroom mirror. Mine looked the same — snub 
nosed, sleepy-eyed, blonde roots growing in under bottle red. His… blurred like someone had smeared 
a handful of Vaseline on the glass. There, his face was patchwork, and his flat, button eyes hung loose. 
When I turned back to James, his bright-blue eyes lit up, and his smile pulled up the rims of his glasses. 
In the mirror, cloth shuffled itself and formed a gap shaped like that smile. I didn’t flinch when he rested 
his flesh (fabric) hand on her knee and leaned in for a kiss. His face felt warm and unshaven and familiar. 
But when I peeked through my lashes, the cloth face in the mirror was rubbing against hers.

I’ve been thinking about that for a couple of weeks now. Would you feel yourself going crazy? Or 
might it happen so quietly that one day you could wake up sure that there was a cloth doll in your bed? 
Do nightmares about getting lost in writhing brambles snap into place all at once, or are they the ones I 
used to forget as I woke? Because I would have noticed. I think I would have noticed.

The sun was too bright again today. Out of the corner of my eye everything had extra reflections. 
The light bouncing off my coffee cup from a direction it couldn’t have, in colors the light couldn’t have 
been. My doctor says they’re migraines. That the nightmares are normal for new mothers. Adopting is 
stressful, especially two babies at once. Bureaucracy can feel like a briar patch. Have I been meditating? 
Taking my medication? I haven’t told him about the mirror thing, he’d probably tell me I’m hysterical. 
Not the funny kind of hysterical either. I think you can get your kids taken away if you’re committed. I 
love James. I think the person I love is James.

I promised myself I’d never be that girl. The one who’s paranoid, the one who snoops. But he gave 
me his email password. Because “he trusts me.” It’s not that much of an invasion of privacy to use some-
thing he offered me, right? And I just want to ask her a question.

What happened? They dated for years. They knew each other most of their lives. And then every-
thing went to pieces. What changed? They haven’t spoken in years, but I know she still lives in town. I 
see her walking at the beach sometimes. She followed me back on Instagram. Why does James go all cold 
and stiff if I mention her in passing? I just want to know…I want to know if he’s always been like this. If 
he was different before we started dating. If this is really him.

I slept next to a cloth doll for seven more days before Katrina emailed me back. I hadn’t wanted to 
press. I wanted to give her time. I mean, it must be a little weird to talk to the woman who came after 
you. Weirder if her email is 1,000 words of circling around a secret. Never quite managing to put that 
suspicion into words. All she said was “yes.” Just like that. Yes, what? Yes, he changed? Yes, he was al-
ways like this? Yes, I can meet her in person?



I slept next to a cloth man that I wished I didn’t love for three more days. Who was still everything 
I wanted, as long as I never looked at him in the mirror. I didn’t pick the storm on purpose. I’d just 
been driving around so long before I could bear to call her that it came up around me. The rain seemed 
appropriate somehow. Like the downpour would wash away all my fears and fantasies, and James and I 
would be okay again. She answered when I called. Said “yes” again. Confirmed her address. I was get-
ting drenched standing on the doorstep, as people walked in and out of the lobby. A tall man leaned out 
the door and invited me in with a soft patience, and looked knowing when I finally touched the handle and 
went inside.

I blinked. Twice, three times, again and again trying to force sense on what I was seeing. Katrina was 
already in the lobby, close enough to kiss a woman whose face made my stomach knot. The other woman 
looked at me wistfully, her eyes so sad, her face a soft reflection of the one I saw this morning. Every fea-
ture shifted so slightly. I met James a couple of times in passing before we were really introduced. I don’t 
think he always went by James. They were whispering, and my feet carried me forward.

My voice sounded shrill and defensive even to my own ears. “Yes, what? What did you mean?”
Katrina looked first at the woman next to her, and then to me. She looked embarrassed, and con-

cerned. Then, slowly, “To both. James did change, but also she didn’t.”
“What the hell is that supposed to mean?” There’s this awful hum in the air. I can barely think.
“…That the guy you married is different from the one I dated, but the one I dated was like the guy 

you married?”
“That makes even less sense.” I put my hands to my head and pressed hard against the noise. 
“Okay, so, Lucy, I’m Aimee. I know you already, and I guess we need to talk, but we don’t have time 

right now. And I know you don’t have any reason to trust me, but I need you to take my hand, so I can 
show you something.”

Spitefully, I felt myself pulling my arms closer, tight around my body. Like that would keep the 
memories away. “How could you possibly help me? And what’s making that awful noise?” Something kept 
creeping around my head. I kept almost remembering. 

Then someone was with them, who I couldn’t quite see. Like a flicker in my vision. A missing cell of 
film. A skipped beat. But when I framed that space against the light just right, his skin was illuminated 
from within. Even more of what I already wasn’t telling my doctor about. People shaped wrong, rushing 
off the elevators. 

“Who’s that?” When he opened his mouth, it sounded like bees and fluorescent lights, and he looked 
at me like I was the funniest thing he’d ever seen. “What is he saying?”

“You can see him?” The other woman seemed terrified. I wasn’t sure that was an improvement over 
the wistful look she’d been giving me earlier. “Lucy, please. I know this is…difficult for you, but I kinda 
feel like I owe it to my fetch to keep you safe until we all have a chance to talk?”

She shrugged defensively. “I mean, I’d want you to be safe if I was in his shoes.” 
The space where a man shouldn’t have been flexed, and I could see the imprints of his fingers on her 

shoulder.
“What’s a fetch?” I whispered. But I knew. I knew.






Lies and half-truths fall like snow, covering the things that I remember, the things I saw. A 
landscape, unrecognizable after a snowfall; that is what she has made of my life.

Neil Gaiman, “Snow, Glass, Apples”

Just because you’ve escaped from Faerie with your life shadow and use it to form the fetch. That isn’t enough raw 
and your wits, that doesn’t mean you’re safe. Behind that or- material, though, and so the Fae use whatever is handy 
dinary lamppost, a grinning goblin offers sweetmeats that rot — household materials, plants, garbage, even the victim’s 
hearts instead of teeth. In your bed, a thing made of match- clothes — to make the fetch. From the time the fetch be-
sticks and clockwork snuggles, warm, under your covers. You gins its charade, its personality develops in much the same 
meet the cab driver’s eyes in the rearview mirror, and they way a human’s would in response to its environment. Just 
flash iron gray as he runs you off the road into a ditch, taking as a human being’s personality and proclivities depend in 
not a scratch. And waiting for you always on the other side of large part upon genetics, however, a fetch’s personality re-
the Hedge — oh God, you hope they’re still on the other side ceives a great deal of influence from its “heritage.” 
of the Hedge — are the Fairest Ones of all, the ones that will The player and the Storyteller should work together to 
haunt your dreams until you die. The only difference between determine the circumstances under which the human was 
before and after is that you know now what’s reaching for you abducted, and thus the circumstances under which the fetch 
from in between the thorny cracks in the Mask’s façade. was formed. The player begins this process by answering five 

F questions regarding the character’s human life and abduction. 
etches
When the Fae steal human beings from their cribs, or Five Questions

pull them into the Hedge as they walk alone down certain •	 Where was the character abducted? Where was the 
alleyways, they leave something behind. The being — the character when she was taken? What is the last thing 
thing — they leave behind looks identical to the person she remembers? The circumstances surrounding her 
they stole, and can function in the abducted human’s life abduction help to determine what kind of situation 
with little difficulty. But that thing the Fae leave behind the fetch encounters when it resumes the changeling’s 
isn’t human and isn’t fae. It is something in between, a life. Was the character in the middle of a birthday 
creature made of detritus and Glamour called the fetch. party for an ex-lover, feeling bitter and petulant? Did 

Building the Fetch she step away from a business meeting to take a phone 
call? Was she wandering alone at night, unable to 

Almost every changeling has a fetch. When the Gen- sleep? Her last moments of freedom shape the fetch’s 
try capture a person, they rip away part of the victim’s first thoughts upon being “born.” 

Fetches 233



•	 Who knows or suspects the truth? Did or does •	 Did the changeling see the fetch? Does the char-
anyone suspect that the fetch is not really who it acter know she has a fetch? Not every changeling 
seems? Maybe someone witnessed the abduction, does. The Lost tend to find out about these simu-
but didn’t quite know what he was seeing. He saw lacra when they emerge from the Hedge and find 
a woman walking down the sidewalk at night, and someone else living their lives, but some change-
then great hands reach out, grab her, and yank her lings have to watch as the Keeper who collected 
into…nothing. Moments later, there she was, re- them crafts the fetch. In some ways, this is benefi-
suming her walk, but with an air of detached calm cial — the changeling has an idea of what to ex-
rather than exhausted stress. Likewise, someone pect when she returns home, and the knowledge 
close to the victim might know, on some horribly that someone is masquerading as her can provide 
instinctive level, that the person who walked in the strong motivation to escape. On the other hand, 
door the night of that terrible storm isn’t really her knowing that something else is living her life can 
father, brother, or spouse, but of course, she has no muddle a changeling’s focus when she pushes her 
way to express these suspicions without sounding way back through the Thorns. Changelings who 
mad. Someone who suspects the truth about the know about their fetches tend to want to destroy 
fetch might make a good ally for the changeling, them as soon as possible…which can make for a 
once she returns from Faerie. confusing realization if the fetch in question has 

done a reasonable job of living the character’s life. 
•	 What is the fetch made of? Gentry whip up a 

fetch in moments, using whatever is handy. They Fetch Traits
use a tiny piece of their target’s soul, sometimes a 
few drops of her blood, and convenient detritus. The Storyteller doesn’t have to develop traits for a fetch, 
Fetches might wind up created out of manmade and should only do so if the fetch is going to play a prominent 
material (garbage, clothes, objects from a victim’s role in the story and interact mechanically with the charac-
home); natural material (leaves, sticks, dirt); living ters. If the fetch is an afterthought, a note in a character’s 
or once-living material (the victim’s pets, animals backstory, or is going to enter the conflict chiefly through 
plucked from the surrounding area); or fae-stuff the influence from afar, traits aren’t necessarily required. If, how-
Fair One has with it. A fetch’s components don’t ever, the changeling decides she’s going to track down her 
necessarily affect its traits, but they probably affect fetch and kill it (a not-uncommon reaction to learning that a 
its personality. A fetch made of the clothes of the fae-created duplicate has taken over one’s life), it’s helpful to 
person it’s impersonating might be better able to have some idea of the fetch’s capabilities. 
carry off the charade in superficial ways, but be in- Create a fetch in much the same way as a Changeling 
capable of real empathy; it is, in effect, an empty character (see Chapter 3 for details). The allocation of the 
suit. A fetch made from fae-stuff might show more fetch’s dots, while numerically the same as the change-
of an affinity for faerie magic and the Hedge, while ling’s, demands some consideration. 
one made from dead animals might become feral One possibility is to distribute the fetch’s Attribute 
and impulsive over time. dots in the same way as the changeling’s. The fetch was 

•	 How is the fetch flawed? No fetch is a perfect rec- fashioned as an exact duplicate of the changeling, after 
reation of the person it is meant to replace. The all, so it makes sense that their basic capabilities would 
player should consider how her character’s fetch is match. Likewise, if the changeling possesses Merits that 
flawed. How might it give itself away? What small reflect innate capabilities (such as Ambidextrous), the 
but basic facet of humanity has it never quite mas- fetch should as well. Skills and Merits that develop over 
tered? What detail about the character’s life does time, however, are unique to the fetch and should be de-
it continually forget or get wrong? Some fetches cided based on how the fetch has spent its life. If the fetch 
become murderers, monsters completely without replaced a person after she was already an adult, though, 
remorse or humanity, but more often, fetches are the Skills and Merits might match much more closely. In-
just off somehow. They can relate to people, up to deed, differences at this stage might provide the change-
a point, but have strange blind spots. Some fetches ling a way to track when she was taken — if the change-
are flawed in more physical ways; a fetch might ling has the Iron Stamina Merit and the fetch does not, 
have a fist-sized hole in the small of its back, stuffed people close to the character might remember that she 
with dead leaves. Another might have its creator’s suddenly lost her high pain threshold “after she got lost in 
initials branded on its collarbone. Deciding how the woods that summer.” 
the fetch is flawed will help the Storyteller portray Another way of looking at this is that when the 
this character when the time comes. changeling returns to the mortal world, the fetch imme-

diately realizes it and develops some sense of itself. This 

234 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



might cause it to gain knowledge of Skills it wouldn’t •	 Fetches cannot gain status in any of the courts. It is 
otherwise possess. For instance, a Playmate changeling, possible, however unlikely, for a fetch that is aware 
forced in Arcadia to be a toy for a spoiled Fae child, has of its nature to gain the Court Goodwill Merit, but 
become an expert tracker through endless games of hide as fetches are not changelings it is not possible for 
and seek. The changeling escapes and flees through the them to have dots in Mantle. A fetch might come 
Hedge to the mortal world. His fetch awakens one morn- to think of himself as a member of a given court, 
ing knowing that something is different, and he is in dan- and the courtiers might even regard him as one, but 
ger. He can’t shake the feeling that something is hunting in game terms, the best he could hope for is a high 
him down, and he might escape if he can hide from it. Court Goodwill rating. Given that all changelings 
The fetch therefore might unconsciously develop dots in see fetches as reminders of the lives the Gentry 
the Stealth Skill; or, if he feels his best chance of living stole from them, though, it would take a peculiar 
involves finding and killing his hunter, the Survival Skill. circumstance for changelings to even grudgingly 

The Storyteller might choose to decide the fetch’s accept a fetch into their society. 
game traits, or allow the player to do so. Either way has 
its advantages. If the Storyteller does it, the player truly •	 Fetches begin with one dot of Wyrd just as change-
does not know what to expect from her character’s im- lings do. The Wyrd rating of a fetch always matches 
poster, and this should heighten the suspense when the the Wyrd rating of the changeling it impersonates, 
inevitable confrontation occurs. It is also probably more though, so if the player trades Merit dots for Wyrd, 
expedient for the Storyteller to handle this aspect of char- or raises Wyrd with Experiences in play, the fetch 
acter creation, which might be a factor depending on how reaps this benefit without expenditure. 
often and for how long the troupe meets. If the player does •	 Fetches have Integrity, like mortals, rather than Clar-
it, she has the ability to show the Storyteller exactly what ity. They therefore derive none of the benefits that 
she expects from the fetch/changeling dynamic, which is changelings do from having a high Clarity rating, but 
helpful for the chronicle as a whole. One way of compro- they also do not risk Integrity for the kinds of acts 
mising in this instance might be for the player to allocate that deal Clarity damage to a changeling. Since fetch-
the dots as usual, but for the Storyteller to spend a certain es are not player-controlled characters, the Storyteller 
number of Experiences on the fetch to reflect its years in doesn’t necessarily need to worry about breaking 
the mortal world. points or tracking the fetch’s Integrity rating, but it 

Finally, consider Needle and Thread. As fae beings makes for a useful benchmark as to how well the fetch 
created for a purpose, fetches have these instead of Virtue holds its stolen life together. A fetch with Integrity 8 
and Vice just like changelings do. While their Needles are might have worked hard to maintain the life it has, 
similar, their Threads can be stranger things, stemming and sees those accomplishments as valid even after 
from unconscious drives the Gentry instilled in them. A learning of its true nature. A fetch with Integrity 2 
fetch could have a Thread of Obedience, never quite un- has never really thought of itself as human at all, and 
derstanding its urge to do as it’s told until it discovers the might be oddly pleased to learn that it was right.
truth about itself; or it could have one of Surveillance, cre-
ated to keep watch on the humans around it just in case •	 Fetches automatically gain the Attuned to the 
the Gentry ever want to come back and pick through its Wyrd Echo. The player (or Storyteller) selects one 
memories. In rare cases, a Keeper might steal a human not additional Echo per dot of Wyrd the fetch possess-
because it even wants a changeling servant, but because it es. During play, if the changeling’s Wyrd rating in-
wants a fetch subliminally doing its bidding to accomplish creases, the fetch gains an additional Echo as well 
something in the mortal world. as a dot of Wyrd.

Character Creation in Brief Magic of the Fetch
The first four steps of character creation proceed as Fetches are unable to call upon Contracts; the magic 

described on p. 89 of this book, with regards to the num- that powers them just doesn’t apply to fetches. Likewise, 
ber of dots that fetches have to distribute. The previous fetches cannot seal pledges, or forge oaths or bargains, 
section discusses how to allocate those dots. though as creatures of the Wyrd, they are almost immune 

Step Five (adding the supernatural template) varies from having their own words sealed (p. 235). They are, 
a bit: however, able to use their fae heritage to their advantage. 

Fetches can call upon powers called Echoes. 
•	 Fetches do not have access to Contracts.

Echoes, as the name implies, are powers based upon 
•	 Fetches do not have seemings or kiths. the fetch’s relationship with its changeling counter-

part. That is, the fetch is nothing but secondary to the 

Fetches 235



which no Contracts are honored and no fae magic 
can function. Spend 10 points of Glamour and roll 

Echoes and  Resolve + Wyrd as an instant action; obviously, 
the Chronicles of this Echo takes several turns to enact due to the 

Darkness Glamour expenditure. If the roll succeeds, no Con-
tracts function within a 50-foot radius and all be-

Should a situation arise in which a fetch’s ings that can hold Glamour (including the fetch 
Echo conflicts with the supernatural abilities of itself) lose one point per turn. This Echo lasts for 
another, non-changeling being, the Storyteller one turn per success. 
can make a Clash of Wills (p. 126) using the 
fetch’s Resolve + Wyrd. •	 Enter the Hedge (Wyrd 1): The fetch can enter the 

Hedge in the same ways a changeling can (p. 198). 

•	 Heart of Wax (Wyrd 1): Made of Glamour and in-
changeling, a placeholder, a stopgap to prevent other animate matter, the fetch feels no pain. The fetch 
humans from discovering and thwarting the Fae. Most ignores wound penalties. By spending a point of 
Echoes only function in the presence of changelings, and Glamour, it can reflexively shed the effect of a Tilt 
some only function on the changeling that the fetch im- causing physical impairment for the scene.
personates. Others play on effects similar to echoes — •	 Mimic Contract (Wyrd 2): The fetch can use any 
shadows, reflections, and other residue. Contract its changeling counterpart possesses. The 

All fetches begin play with the Attuned to the Wyrd fetch must have interacted with the changeling at least 
Echo, and gain additional Echoes as their Wyrd rating once, face to face, to use this Echo. This costs one 
increases. point of Glamour, or the cost of the Contract, which-

Fetches require a certain Wyrd rating to acquire ever is greater. Fetches cannot make use of Loopholes.
Echoes. These requirements are noted after the name of 
the power (“Shadow Step (Wyrd 3),” for instance). •	 Normalcy (Wyrd 1): This Echo is permanent and 

never needs to be activated, although the fetch can 
Echoes turn it off reflexively if it so desires. The fetch is 

completely undetectable by fae magic. As far as the 
•	 Attuned to the Wyrd (automatic): All fetches can perceptive magic of the Fae and changelings are 

recognize changelings for what they are, even before concerned, the fetch is simply a human being. The 
the changeling to whom they are attuned returns to fetch must turn this power off to use other Echoes, 
the mortal world. Fetches see changelings’ miens as other than Attuned to the Wyrd. 
well as their mortal guises, in much the same way that 
other changelings do. In addition, fetches can sense •	 Shadow Boxing (Wyrd 2): Fighting one’s fetch is 
changelings coming before they see them. This sensa- like fighting one’s shadow — you can’t surprise it. 
tion is general; the fetch cannot differentiate between The fetch can predict its changeling’s next move 
changelings, but can tell when a changeling is with- with disturbing precision. Spend one point of 
in a 50-foot radius. The exception, of course, is the Glamour for the fetch reflexively. For the remain-
changeling that the fetch is impersonating. The fetch der of the scene, the changeling receives no De-
can immediately tell if that changeling is within this fense against the fetch, though armor is unaffected.
distance. This attunement means that changelings 
cannot surprise a fetch. •	 Shadow Step (Wyrd 3): The fetch can use shadows to 

teleport limited distances. The fetch must find a shad-
•	 Call the Huntsmen (Wyrd 5): The fetch can send ow large enough to step or fall into, and the Storyteller 

up a beacon to any nearby Huntsmen, usually as a spends a point of Glamour. The fetch disappears into 
last resort. Since only powerful fetches have this the shadow and reappears from any shadow of com-
ability, Huntsmen generally respond to this sum- parable size within 100 yards/meters. The fetch can 
mons quickly. At the Storyteller’s discretion, this use this power to escape from a pursuer, circumvent a 
Echo may summon the Gentry instead. Using this locked door, or gain a tactical advantage over an oppo-
Echo requires an instant action and the expendi- nent (appearing behind her, for instance). The telepor-
ture of all of the fetch’s Glamour (however much it tation normally requires an instant action, but if the 
has at the time, as long as it has any). Storyteller spends three points of Glamour, this action 

is reflexive. The fetch does not have to see where it is 
•	 Death of Glamour (Wyrd 4): The fetch becomes going, but if it cannot see its destination it gains no 

a sinkhole for Glamour, creating a small zone in protection from unfavorable circumstances there.

236 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



•	 Summon Shard (Wyrd 1): In the modern world, sees the relationship with the fetch progressing. One player 
the fetch is always armed. By touching a pane of might be interested in hunting down and killing her charac-
glass, the fetch can summon a mirror-like blade ter’s fetch, no matter what. It might be interesting, then, for 
reflexively. This requires the expenditure of one that fetch to try to continue living the changeling’s life, duti-
point of Glamour. The blade inflicts 1L, or 2L if fully doing what she was made to do, until the changeling 
the fetch pulled it from a mirror. The blade fades at forces her hand by becoming violent. Another player’s char-
the end of the scene. acter might be terrified to confront his fetch because that 

represents an attempt to retake his old life, and for whatever 
Storytelling  reason, he feels unready or unworthy to do that. This fetch 

the Fetch might be more confident, ruthless, and opportunistic, forc-
ing the player to make some tough and firm decisions to re-

The role the fetch plays in the chronicle depends solve the story. 
on the Storyteller and the players. That said, the fetch is Making the fetch a straight-out monster is always a 
well-suited to highlight a few of Changeling’s themes, and possibility. Fetches aren’t human, and learning that fact 
can make for stories unique to this game. might propel the fetch headfirst into inhumanity. It might 

The fetch is fashioned out of a piece of a human be- become violent, bloodthirsty, abusive, sociopathic, or just 
ing. Specifically, the Fae use a piece of the person’s shad- numb. If it knows the changeling is around, it might at-
ow, but this is an obvious metaphor for the soul…and to tempt to ruin the changeling’s life in any number of ter-
the Fae, metaphor is as good as truth. The fetch, there- rible ways. It might even try to attract the attention of a 
fore, is put into the role of imposter without any choice Huntsman or the Gentry; after all, if the changeling goes 
in the matter and usually with no idea of his position. back to Arcadia, the fetch gets its “life” back! 
It isn’t until a changeling escapes from Arcadia and ar- Conflicts inherent to Changeling are discussed in 
rives home, breathless and bloodied from a harrowing run Chapter 7, but below are some conflicts and stories spe-
through the Hedge, that a fetch realizes he — it — is cific to the fetch and its role in the chronicle.
different.

What form does that realization take? One fetch sits The Fetch as Adversary
bolt upright one night, sheet soaked with sweat, in the Once the fetch realizes what it is and that the 
middle of a panic attack so intense he can barely breathe. changeling exists, it might well be incensed. As long as 
Another finds herself standing in a crowded square one the changeling is around, it knows it is a fake, a man-
day, tears running down her face, because she suddenly nequin made to dupe the changeling’s relatives. But while 
cannot remember her name or where she lives. Yet an- the changeling was gone, the fetch was doing all the work, 
other fetch walks out of class at the college he attends and doing it quite well, thanks anyway. Why should the 
only to be grabbed by the lapels and slammed against the changeling get to show up and take it all away just because 
wall by a man that his friends don’t get a good look at… he actually happens to be the genuine person? 
but after the assailant runs away, the fetch is so terrified This kind of attitude doesn’t have to stem from bit-
he can hardly stand, because the face of his attacker was terness or fear, though it certainly can. The fetch might 
identical to his own. have a spouse and children, and whether it can feel genu-

Fetches are not necessarily “evil twins” to Change- ine love or not, it isn’t going to give up its family without 
ling characters. Remember that many believed themselves a fight.
to be human until shown otherwise by their counterparts. The fetch can be a violent adversary to a change-
As such, they can be anything that a human being can be ling. The two can spend their days sparring, attacking 
— cruel, hateful, petty; but also loving, kind, and selfless. whatever the other holds dear, or playing a tense game of 
Are they more prone to sociopathy because they lack true cat and mouse, each trying to maneuver the other into a 
souls, or do they mimic human morality because they are deathtrap. 
meant to blend in? Is killing a fetch really murder, from 
an ethical standpoint (what it means from a Clarity stand- The fetch can also be a rival. The fetch and the 
point is discussed on p. 106)? Your troupe can confront changeling might both be part of the local changeling 
these questions, if you wish to tell a story about the fetch. court, to whatever degree. What if the reigning monarch 

decrees that fetches cannot be killed, but must agree to 
How does the fetch react when it realizes it isn’t human? give up their stolen lives and return to their changelings’ 

Finding out it is a copy of a person, inserted into that per- shadows? The fetch would need to submit to this fate, or 
son’s life to cover up a kidnapping, is a traumatic event. Of be beaten down and degraded to the point that he agrees. 
course, since the fetch is a Storyteller-controlled character, The battles between changeling and fetch then aren’t lit-
how a given fetch responds is subservient to the needs of the eral, physical battles, but political and emotional games of 
chronicle, and should be informed by the player and how he wit and endurance. 

Fetches 237



The Fetch as Other Half A changeling might escape Arcadia, fight her way back 
Some changelings believe they can merge with their through the Hedge, emerge bloodied and victorious in a 

fetches. The fetch can, according to rumors and fanciful place she recognizes, track down her fetch, kill or assimilate 
tales, step back into the changeling’s shadow and give up her, and expect to have “won.” She hasn’t. She cannot re-
its stolen life. This is akin to death for the fetch, but the claim the time the Gentry took from her, nor can she obviate 
fetch’s memories of its life as a human being transfer to her durance. The best she can do is heal and move on. 
the changeling. In that moment, the changeling becomes That can mean any number of things for a change-
whole again and regains the entirety of his soul. He’s still ling, but confronting the fetch is perhaps the best way for 
a changeling, yes — nothing’s going to take that away a character to symbolically confront the version of her 
from him — but he’s human, as well. that the Gentry took. She can look on what she might 

It’s a beautiful idea, but is it true? Enough changelings have become, had she not been kidnapped, and decide 
believe it that the idea persists, for whatever that’s worth. where to go from there. She might decide to destroy the 

fetch and reclaim her life. She might come to terms with 
If merging with the fetch is possible, it requires an ex- the fetch, allowing her to keep her old life and go forth to 

traordinary set of circumstances. Perhaps as part of creating forge a new one. She might take a much bitterer road — 
the fetch, the Fae had to build a clause into the Contract destroy the fetch, but remain apart from her old life. The 
that enabled what was sundered to become whole again. underlying point is that the fetch represents the answer to 
This clause might involve beating the fetch in a certain a hard question: What does the changeling do about her 
type of combat, or it might require that the fetch knowingly pre-durance life?
and willingly agree to the “merger.” Perhaps the changeling 
can complete this merger if he drags the fetch back into the Resolution
Hedge and keeps him prisoner there for a certain amount of 
time…but that fetch will probably scream for help until he is When a changeling finally confronts her fetch, what 
hoarse, and in the Hedge, who knows what might answer? is the outcome? How does this story end? The player — 

and thus the character — has some options. 
The Fetch as a  
Question of Humanity Kill the Fetch

Strictly speaking, changelings don’t have to feel bad about The obvious answer is violence. As discussed, the 
killing fetches. Not only are they manifestly not human, they changeling has every reason to want to destroy the fetch. 
are creations of the Gentry. They are living reminders of what This is probably the simplest resolution for a fetch-cen-
a changeling has lost, and of the ongoing power the Gentry tered story in Changeling: The Lost, but that doesn’t 
wield over the world. Destroying a fetch is not like killing a mean it’s wrong or can’t be satisfying. Killing the fetch 
human being, not in any moral or literal sense. might be cathartic, or it might grant the changeling a 

strong insight into what it means to be human…and how 
It is possible for a fetch to adopt humanity, in a way. much of her own humanity she might have lost. 

If a fetch displays human traits, and treats other people 
with respect and empathy (both of which can be learned), From a game-mechanics perspective, this result 
then in what meaningful way does it differ from human- is much like any other fatal violence. The fetch falls 
ity? One changeling might say it doesn’t, and try to come apart into its constituent parts, the changeling might 
to some kind of resolution. Maybe the changeling helps lose Clarity, and the story moves on. A blast of Glam-
the fetch adopt a new identity, or maybe the changeling, our might accompany the death of a fetch as the magic 
altered by her time in Arcadia, moves on, letting her fetch holding it together is freed, or it might simply collapse 
have the life the Gentry took from her. into a bloodless heap. The changeling might refresh all 

Willpower or Glamour as a feeling of victory comes over 
Another changeling might claim that aping humanity is her, or she might feel oddly empty; after all, a piece of her 

irrelevant. The fetch is an automaton, a living (or at least an- soul was used to make this thing and she just smashed it. 
imate) lie of the Gentry, and destruction is perfectly justified. In any case, the Storyteller should resist the temptation 

Both changelings are “right.” Both positions are de- to make this scene just a simple fight. The fetch might 
fensible. Both have the potential for powerful stories, es- be defiant and evil, sure, but what if the fetch is honestly 
pecially if the changeling makes her decision but then has confused as to why the changeling is attacking? What if 
to deal with other Lost who “know better.” the fetch begs to live? Can the changeling still pull the 

proverbial trigger? 
The Fetch as a Hard Lesson

The changeling cannot recover what she has lost. Forgive the Fetch
Teaching her that is, perhaps, the harshest use of the fetch The changeling might decide to accept the fetch for 
in a Changeling story, but it is potentially a powerful one. what it is — an attempt to copy the human being the 

238 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



changeling was. If the fetch is still trying to behave in a Lost ever bother to try, and that should carry some kind 
humane (and human) fashion, the changeling might well of reward. Maybe the changeling permanently increases 
decide to forgive the fetch’s impersonation. After all, the her maximum Clarity, or becomes invisible to Huntsmen 
fetch really didn’t have a lot of say in the matter. for a given period of time. Maybe she can teach her meth-

This kind of resolution should probably take the form od to other changelings. After all, what would it mean 
of an intense scene between the changeling and the fetch. if fetches learned they aren’t necessarily doomed, false 
If the rest of the motley is there, that’s fine, but don’t let people? What would it mean if changelings learned they 
more talkative players steal thunder from the character in could take back so much of what the Gentry stole? 
question. The changeling needs to come to some kind of 
closure with the fetch, and that involves figuring out the The Loyal
practical ramifications of “live and let live.” Put another Arcadia is a place of grand beauty, but great suffering. 
way, if the changeling and the fetch are, in many ways, the Most changelings would pay nearly any price to avoid be-
same person, who gets to keep the house? Is one of them ing forced to return, an attitude that has shaped change-
going to leave town? Are they going to try to share the ling society into one that stands in opposition to the True 
life, which is probably destined to become a train wreck Fae. This singular focus makes that society equally un-
and therefore a great source of drama? suited to dealing with threats from within. The society 

Beyond the temporal considerations, though, they of changelings prides itself on welcoming without ostra-
should come to some kind of resolution on the time the cizing, valuing every Lost’s experiences as equal. When 
changeling spent in her durance. What did she miss? If internal threats arise, they’re difficult to address with any 
she had children, the fetch can fill her in on the mile- degree of nuance.
stones and important events that happened during her For all their intrigue, courts are built on a fundamen-
absence. If the fetch has been performing the changeling’s tal, unifying premise: haven against the life stealers and 
job, she’ll need to know about new faces at the office and lie smiths. Communal defense is an eminently human 
any promotions (or demotions) that happened while she reaction to shared danger, providing magical and social 
was away. It might be better to walk away from some fac- protection in the form of Mantles. Those who defy the 
ets of this life and start fresh, but might the fetch not see courts are more than mere traitors when they’re revealed: 
that as unfair? They are betrayers of the sacred compact, transgressors 

Reclaim the Fetch against the concept of safety and mutual survival that 
binds changeling society.

Fetches are made, in part, of a piece of a person’s soul. No one motive forces a changeling to eschew the 
Suppose the changeling wants her soul back? safety of the courts, though commonalities emerge that 

If a character wants to merge with her fetch, she allow classification for colloquial parlance. In general, 
needs to understand it. She needs to find where it was these courtless are called loyalists, though only a few truly 
created and, if possible, learn how. She needs to figure remain loyal to the Gentry (and some aren’t truly court-
out what it was made from — detritus in the Hedge? The less). Greed motivates some, a refusal to play the games of 
abducted person’s clothes? The skin and bones of an un- the court others. Still others are consumed by shame and 
fortunate animal? Whatever the Gentry had in its pockets addiction, bound interminably to the True Fae. The tiger 
at the time? that stalks the courts has three stripes: Bridge-Burner, 

The changeling needs to understand what the fetch Privateer, and True Loyalist.
has been through, but also needs to come to terms with it Whatever their varying motivations, a confirmed loy-
herself. She needs to reconnect with the people in her life alist faces exile or swift, sure execution in the best-case 
and be honest with at least one of them about where she’s scenario…and a harrowing, vitriol-filled public execution 
been, which probably means confessing that she’s been in the worst. They feel the kiss of cold iron, knowing none 
gone at all. She needs to forgive the fetch as described of their executioners ever want to think, there but for the 
in the previous section, but then reclaim the piece of her grace of Fate go I, because that line of thought leads to 
soul from it. Does that mean actually cutting open the Clarity’s disintegration.
fetch and removing its heart? That’s a simplistic, but vis-
ceral, way to represent the act. The changeling could also Distinguishing
physically connect with the fetch — a kiss, an embrace, or 
just a hand held to the fetch’s heart. Between the Loyal

What happens to the changeling if she reclaims this Most of courtly society doesn’t distinguish between 
piece of her soul? Any mechanical benefits are up to the loyalists. All who refuse to engage with the base premise of 
Storyteller, but the experience should be transcendent. changeling society could potentially be loyal in the eyes of 
The character has accomplished something few of the 

The Loyal 239



They wear that name as a badge of honor, because 
some bridges should never be crossed. The Burners range 

The Courtless anywhere from “courtless with mildly controversial opin-
ions” to “terrorist dream-murderer.” Belief, dreams, pledg-

Not all courtless are loyalists, but courtiers es, emotion — these are sources of power and Glamour 
tend to see them that way. Changelings for the True Fae, the reasons they abduct humans beyond 
who just want to go about their business 
without joining a court and have no par- the Hedge. The logic of the Burners is undeniable: Cut 
ticular agenda rarely interact much with the Gentry off from the source of their might, deny them 
player characters, unless the characters crossings of the Hedge, and they will cease to find hu-
themselves are courtless, focusing more manity interesting. Destroying the supply train of an in-
on reclaiming their old lives than finding a vading army is a time-honored military tactic, because it 
new purpose. The courts impose a stigma works. Poison the wells, burn the bridges, and your enemy 
of suspicion on these changelings, con- withers and quits the field.
demning them, even if for nothing more To that end, the Bridge-Burners annihilate anything 
sinister than sticking their heads in the sand 
when they could be helping their fellows. they think might attract the Fae, their goals ranging 
That doesn’t mean the courts are necessar- from encouraging science without wonder, to getting a 
ily right — but if it’s hard to identify a real local school board to eliminate music programs at ele-
loyalist within the courtly structure, how mentary schools, to acting as ad hoc muses for architects 
much harder is it to do so in the wild? Fear using the Brutalist style (they’re particularly proud of the 
motivates this stigma more than anything, role they had in the J. Edgar Hoover Building the FBI 
and this dynamic could be an interesting used as a headquarters for a half century). They hunt and 
one to explore if the troupe likes. kill any fetches they find, and attempt to eradicate any 

site that might have some sort of Arcadian resonance. 
Skilled oneiromancers, they raze the dreams of lucid 
dreamers and those who have suffered the poisons of the 

the courts, and the reasons don’t truly matter. Bridge-Burn- True Fae.
ers, at least, are usually open about their motives and heresy Bridge-Burners become rabid and terroristic pro-
— while they endanger all others around them by openly moters of hard logic, science, and technology that de-
refusing to adopt a Mantle and engaging in scorched-Hedge fies the Hedge. They don’t eschew magic, however: 
tactics, their hearts are against the True Fae, and therefore in Theirs are the Contracts that manipulate memory, be-
the right place. The courts paint privateers and True Loyal- lief, and dreams. None of the Bridge-Burners truly care 
ists with the same broad brush of betrayer, though, and they if their actions render a mortal incapable of empathy 
generally tend to be far more insidious. Privateers sell their or creativity. It stops the True Fae and prevents them 
fellow changelings to the Gentry or to slave traders at the from taking people. This is war. Casualties are expected 
Goblin Markets, and the reasons are mercenary. Whether and acceptable. To that end, Burners are also some of 
on retainer or on an ad hoc basis, a privateer is beholden the most media-aware Lost, aggressively seeking out 
only to her profit motive. True Loyalists, by contrast, serve hunters and attempting to sway other Lost with propa-
the Others directly, but for an infinite variety of reasons. Of ganda. It’s not unusual for urban changelings to receive 
the three, True Loyalists are perhaps the most pitiable, and a Burner mass text with a cheerfully vague call to arms. 
simultaneously the most reviled. Nobody wants to hear the The real message is easy to grasp: If we can find you, 
means that justify an end in enslavement. so can They.

Bridge-Burners They’re loathe to admit it, but it’s fear, righteous-
ness, and fanaticism that motivates the Bridge-Burners. 

“Our memories of this world allowed us purchase to re- The fear that drives them is that of the Wild Hunt tri-
turn from the Hedge. All acknowledge this, yet few recognize umphant, of the full might of the True Fae turned against 
the converse: The belief of our fellows allows the Others pur- the changelings. Their righteousness is that of the zealot: 
chase here.” such certainty in their cause that Clarity is rarely an im-

Loyalist. The mere appellation rankles the Bridge- pediment to their impossible task of war against Arca-
Burners — if anything, their hatred of the Others eclipses dia. Their fanaticism is that of the hardened survivor, of 
everything else. The courts utilize the tools and methods of someone who has seen true war.
the enemy, making Bargains and singing sagas of opposition. 
For the Burners, playing the game at all is playing it on the History
enemy’s home turf. They seek an ultimate end to Arcadia’s The Bridge-Burners, as a unified philosophy, have 
relationship with Earth, hence the name Bridge-Burner. their origins in the Age of Enlightenment. The concept 

240 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



The Bridge-Burner’s Tale
All your life, you dreamed of armor, a glittering shell protecting you from the world. In your dreams, 
you sat astride mighty destriers, sword and shield in hand. One night, you realized that you were 
in a dream, but you didn’t wake up. The Others came seeking a vassal, and you came to know the 
true horror of war.

You fought your way clear and destroyed the thing that looked like you, but you knew you’d been 
taken because of your dreams. You dreaded falling asleep, even as your husband commented on 
the change in your behavior. So you sought in the dreams of others instead. And one night, you 
found yourself back on the tournament field, but the champion’s face was your daughter’s.

That night, as she sank into fitful, sweating sleep, you slipped into her dreams. So vibrant in their 
fever pitch, shuddering under the weight of sickly madness, they were a grand and inviting bea-
con. You saw the thorns creeping in. If you didn’t act, they would have her as they had you. That’s 
why the songbirds no longer sing in your garden; you crushed bones and captured death screams, 
bound skin and feathers in a dreamcatcher lined with iron spikes (the scars on your hands still 
haven’t faded). As your daughter tossed, you hung the catcher above her head.

In the morning, you plucked the small bit of bloody gray meat from the iron spikes and chewed it 
thoughtfully while you caressed the fresh scar on her forehead. She would never dream again, but 
that was a small choice to pay for her safety.

of using occult architecture and mortal science as Carey Ives
defenses against the Fae has existed since a group of “Don’t be afraid, little one. I won’t let them take you.”
Wyrdbuilder masons sprung up in the Dark Ages, but 
the Burners grew from seeds sown by Thomas More Background: Ives has stalked several suburban 
and Sir Francis Bacon. The idea that reason could tri- towns of the Midwestern United States since the early 
umph over superstition was the keystone binding the 1980s, catching the dreams of young and imaginative 
Bridge-Burners together. Even then, the Gentry had no children in a rusty iron dreamcatcher. Of this much 
problem abducting skeptics and early scientists, but the the local courts are aware. Few know Ives’ history — 
Bridge-Burners felt this was an issue with the world- taken by the Others from her parents’ farm during the 
wide problem of belief and wonder. This belief, they Great Depression, returning to the world during the 
proclaimed to crowds in freeholds, was a bright and Summer of Love, raising a family with a husband who 
shining beacon to the Others, a blazing signal fire seen knew nothing of her troubles. In Arcadia, she served 
from Arcadia’s Plutonian shores. The upswelling of re- as the faceless challenger, jousting for her Keeper to 
turning Lost during Victoria’s reign was proof enough face champions from every kingdom and draining them 
of that. From their metropoles of London and Paris, of life and Glamour when they fell, with a helm’s vi-
Bridge-Burners attempted to convince traditional Sea- sor serving as her only expression of self. Once she 
sonal Courts to favor Summer. Even if the True Fae returned, she could not bear to endure the way the 
didn’t cease in their attempts to abduct mortals — even freehold embraced the trappings of fae nobility, and re-
if the Bridge-Burners never made a dent in the num- jected its aid. Ives’ separation from the courts and her 
bers — the 20th century gave the Bridge-Burners far growing fear for her child led her to do the unthink-
more weapons with which to fight the Arcadians. Even able. Yet once her child was safe, the fear returned, and 
as belt-fed machine guns chattered and f lung iron at so Ives went.
a rate magic could never match, ancient changelings While the mutilation of children’s dreams is what 
pulled themselves into movie sets that replicated the she’s known for best, Ives has participated in other Bridge-
days of antiquity. The biggest successes came early, be- Burning activities, sometimes literally — burning down 
fore Hollywood clamped down on set design: Anyone magnet schools, slashing art galleries after hours, and 
who looks closely at the special features of Cecil B. murdering fantasy authors. She’s well-known at this point, 
DeMille’s The Ten Commandments will catch a glimpse but frighteningly good at penetrating courts, a talent that 
of a f leeing motley. lends credence to her frequent arguments of courtiers be-

coming complacent.

The Loyal 241



Description: Ives is in her mid-50s, and her mortal Mask 
shows it. She gets by on the largesse of her fellow Bridge-Burn-
ers, who banded together to keep one another fed and clothed 
with truck-stop meals and thrift-store clothing. Her fae mien 
has featureless black armor in place of skin, everywhere but 
her hands. Her calloused fingers, perpetually stained with 
rust and dried blood behind the Mask, wield weapons and 
craft traps as well as they suck the life out of people.

Storytelling Hints: She’s the quiet one in back, and 
she enjoys it when they whisper Bridge-Burner as she pass-
es. In the beginning, she did this to keep her daughter 
safe, and in her heart she knows it’s wrong, but she can’t 
turn back now. The freeholds could never protect anyone, 
just keep them still and placid. Only by making the Oth-
ers uninterested in this world can she be safe from them. 
Only by being what they didn’t like to see will she be free.
Seeming: Darkling
Kith: Leechfinger
Court: Courtless
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 4, Resolve 4
Physical Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3
Social Attributes: Presence 1, Manipulation 2, 
Composure 2
Mental Skills: Academics 1, Crafts 2, Occult 2, Science 1
Physical Skills: Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Larceny (Breaking 
and Entering) 2, Stealth 3, Weaponry 3
Social Skills: Empathy (Oneiromancy) 1, Intimidation 
4, Socialize (School Systems) 1, Subterfuge 2
Merits: Anonymity 2, Defensive Dreamscaping, 
Dreamweaver, Fleet of Foot 3, Glamour Fasting
Willpower: 6
Current/Maximum Clarity: 3/6
Needle: Traditionalist
Thread: Family
Touchstones: None
Aspiration: To stop children from dreaming
Initiative: 5
Defense: 5
Size: 5 
Speed: 11
Health: 8
Wyrd: 3
Glamour/per Turn: 12/3
Frailties: Must engage in formal courtly ceremony when 
it’s appropriate (minor taboo)
Favored Regalia: Mirror, Sword
Contracts: Dreamsteps, Glimpse of a Distant Mirror, 
Know the Competition, Oathbreaker’s Punishment, Red 
Revenge, Touch of Wrath

242 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Privateers
“Yah, yah, I know. Don’t make this harder on the both Other Motives

of us. ‘Cause in the end, you’d do the same right back to me, 
‘twere your ass up against the wall. Besides, I’m not the one Out of all the groups of changeling antago-
you should be ‘fraid of.” nists, privateers are perhaps the most directly 

If fear is the common motivating emotion behind inimical to the Lost’s safety and way of life. 
the Bridge-Burners, avarice is the equivalent among the It’s for this reason that so many privateers 
privateers. Humans, changelings, even the more exotic hook up with hunter cells without even a shred 

of irony, stalking nightmares that walk with 
breeds once mortal that stalk the night: a privateer will human faces. Driven to war against creatures 
acquire them. Put simply, privateers drag their kidnapped worse than any tale told by Keats or the Broth-
victims across the Hedge and sell them to Goblin Market ers Grimm, changeling hunters are rare, but 
slave-stall owners — or even to the True Fae themselves. frighteningly effective — because privateers 
As mercenaries who sell their own kind to the Gentry or see their mortal cellmates as useful cover. No 
goblins in exchange for profit, privateers are universally few Lost have been herded into the Hedge to 
loathed. While a changeling might forgive the Bridge- escape a harrowing encounter with cold iron 
Burners for their excess and pity the loyalists even as he only to find a privateer waiting for them.
hates them, a privateer’s actions are unforgivable. Even in Other privateers aren’t themselves hunters, 
liberal courts, Bridge-Burning or True Loyalist behavior but they know it’s not just the Gentry who 
can result in exile, but privateering carries a sentence of a will pay a pretty penny to get their hands on 
headsman’s cold iron. a changeling. They act as hirelings for any 

The agreement is a simple one, usually brokered be- faction or individual with mystical resources to 
tween the prospective privateer and her benefactor. Some offer who wants the Lost for their own obses-
Keepers use privateers as ad hoc Huntsmen, but more of- sions or nefarious purposes. Anybody with a 
ten it is the Huntsmen themselves who enlist privateers, desire selfish or desperate enough can find a 
ferreting out the weaknesses of their target’s fellows. Some use for captive fae magic, and privateers are 

already well-positioned to do the dirty work.
privateers sign a contract of marque for Glamour, others 
for mortal power or rewards. Such rewards can be lucra-
tive, and a Huntsman can offer much. No few privateers 
merely dabble in the profession, engaging in slave trading 
for a healthy sampling of tokens and rare weapons made times between a draped mantle of protection are vulner-
of Faerie’s essence, or temporary protection from other able and trying. Powerful, elder Lost can behave with 
Huntsmen. Depending on the changeling, bargaining for striking mercy at times toward a suspected privateer, mo-
freedom isn’t out of the question, but most privateers pre- tivated not by a sense of shared experience and commu-
fer to honor a deal made for capturing a changeling — nity but by guilt.
breaking a vow to the Lords of Faerie or even mere goblins History
can be bad for one’s health. Besides, they say, isn’t it bet-
ter to define the terms of a relationship with the Fae in When humanity created the revolutionary con-
contracts and Glamour than to live like a fugitive, forever cept of privateering to supplement the navy in the late 
burdened by fear? 15th century, it spread through Arcadia like wildfire. 

Hundreds of privateers, given official protection and 
Like their long-ago mortal counterparts, privateers pledges of service, plagued the Elizabethan Lost. For a 

are themselves protected from the Gentry by contracts time in the early 18th century, entire courts collapsed 
of marque, free from a Huntsman’s reprisal. Few begin in cities serving as transatlantic hubs, their protections 
their careers serving one of the Gentry close to losing all replaced by a loose confederation of privateers out for 
Clarity, but Clarity rarely survives a prolonged privateer themselves, snapping up newfound Lost and return-
lifestyle. Much like its historical namesake, privateering ing them to the Hedge. Still, these privateer utopias 
tends to be a temporary avocation. Eventually, the con- could not sustain themselves in anarchy; the Hunts-
tract of marque becomes too demanding, or their Lost men offered especial bounties on their best privateers, 
victims ken to the danger in their midst — or they sim- and wars among the Lost depopulated freeholds across 
ply either run out of victims or lose all Clarity, whichever entire countries.
comes first.

Few of the so-called utopias survived after the Chain 
Most freeholds don’t talk about it, but a bout of priva- Wars, as changeling talespinners would later call them. 

teering in the histories of long-lived Lost isn’t considered The last of them was Puerto Vallarta, surviving until the 
unusual. Courts rise and fall with the seasons, but the 1980s, when privateers preyed on transient Lost and rich 

The Loyal 243



The Privateer’s Tale
Hands reached to you as soon as you escaped the Hedge. Others just like you, but while your wounds 
were freshly bloodied, their hands had long since scarred over. They took you in, taught you the way of 
the world that lay beside the real one. Soon, you felt the weight of mantling on your shoulders. You were 
to have a role, a place in the freehold.

But that meant a crown to swear fealty to. You said yes to a king once, and this time you were smart 
enough to say no. You knelt once, never again. And that was it for your time as a courtier.

Except now you’re back. You met someone who didn’t ask obeisance, just a fair exchange of goods for ser-
vices. He’s in the Hedge, though you’ve recognized him at Market before. Gold, Glamour, protection — you can 
have it, but you have to work for it. What did he want? Not what, but who. The weak. The arrogant.

You’re not a role in someone else’s story. You’re freer than anyone else.

Americans fulfilling mortal needs deemed improper by the end of the day. They’re defended by the courts that 
society. On sands overlooking the Bahía de Banderas, spin a tale of dominance and struggle, where a changeling 
privateers took men whose chief crime was dreaming of must expend great effort and risk to maintain her status. 
freedom. Like all the others, this utopia was consumed (Your Keeper would take you back. They always do.)
from within, whittled down until a single roving mot- Next are the Lost whose long durance of abuse and 
ley put a final end to the last privateers. Even today, the habit found them lacking some part of their psychology or 
words Puerto Vallarta inspire crackdowns on Hedge travel physiology, rendering them dependent on their Keepers. 
in a freehold; no one wants to see the privateer utopias Sustained by the inimitable nature of Arcadian magic, 
rise again. a changeling may find himself deeply uncomfortable in 
True Loyalists the now-foreign magical atmosphere of Earth, unable to 

function without some unique presence or substance. For 
“What do you mean, you don’t understand? You do, if every Lost glad to be rid of the terrible beauty of their 

you think about it. You just believe it’s a choice, a lack of Keeper, another wakes up sweating and shaking, crying at 
willpower or misplaced loyalty. And you have to believe that his loss. Still another, the flowers of her hair wilting, feels 
none of those things actually matter.” the pollen of spring wash over her and compares the inad-

Svikari. Bradwr. Quisling. Traitor. No matter the equate lovemaking to Arcadian flora. Without a motley-
language, none are more reviled than the willing col- mate of the same kith, it’s difficult to explain.
laborator, the fifth columnist whose loyalties lie with the (The Huntsmen know, though. They have a knack 
occupiers rather than the occupied. Survivors of literally for finding these things out.)
inhuman treatment, changelings can at least understand Last and saddest of all are the changelings who fall 
the motivations of Bridge-Burners and privateers, even if to regret, who come to deny the essential part of their 
their actions are still roundly condemned. Yet for True humanity that dared yearn for freedom. Some indelible 
Loyalists, they feel only confusion and contempt, a reflex- defiance led the Lost to escape Arcadia, and it’s this that 
ive outpouring of rage toward those who would willingly True Loyalists lose sight of, themselves lost in a lack of 
reenter servitude and bring others with them. Only the Clarity. For all their agency and increased responsibility, 
rankest Lost would prefer the durance to freedom. Only the lure of a love too beautiful to deny or the dizzying 
the weak would fall back into slavery. highs of a durance with purpose overshadows the hor-

The most dangerous loyalist hates and fears the Gen- rifying memories of the lowest suffering. In time, these 
try as much as anyone else. They believe themselves im- changelings feel their memories of their Keepers growing 
mune to further predation. They’ve escaped, like every- rosier, a feeling of being incomplete without them. This 
one else, surviving Arcadia with the twin scars of seeming stripe of loyalist desires the company of others when they 
and kith. Every changeling is a survivor, yet many Lost are return to blessed Arcadia, to the roles they have been 
victims still. Arcadia’s a place of enchantment and horror, molded and broken and rebuilt to fulfill. Back to Arcadia, 
but it follows the oddly predictable whims of the True Fae. away from the cold, cruel world, back to fill the hole they 
Predictable yet dangerous is often preferable to facing the left and set right their long absence.
unknown, a truth many changelings refuse to admit at 

244 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



The Loyalist’s Tale
Every day since you crossed the Hedge, your flame grew dimmer. You wished that were a metaphor, but 
embers burn where your heart once beat, and each night they smoldered down to ash. No one in the 
freehold could help you, though they were all sympathetic to your plight. The goblins at Market could get 
you what you need — the wax of azure bees — but they asked for your seventh-born son. You weren’t even 
sure you could have a first-born, since your genitals are hot enough to melt plastic.

Summer’s warmth sustained you a bit, but you knew you’d never see spring again. As you watched the 
fireflies dance in the evening, you saw their flames mirroring your own. You remembered how Prince Yon-
der’s seneschal smiled as the pyreflies burrowed under your skin and turned your meat to sweet smoke. As 
they danced, the pyreflies spoke to you, in the language of flickering flames.

“Your light shines so prettily this side of the Hedge,” they said. “But the Prince’s hall grows dark.”

You knew what was asked of you. One by one, the fireflies flared out and fell. Their tiny bodies plopped 
against a wrapped package sitting amid the grass. Inside was a lump of something blue.

History and trust by necessity. It’s important for the Storyteller to 
True Loyalists have existed as long as the Lost have, make loyalists neither glaringly obvious nor ubiquitous, 

for as long as changelings have crossed over the Hedge lest they completely undermine the feeling of security a 
and looked back with longing. They were not reviled for freehold and court provide. True Loyalists threaten the 
all of that time, though; when courts were weak or not changeling’s own narrative of their experiences in Arca-
present, the percentage of Lost falling back into rhythm dia, while privateers tend to be far more impersonal about 
with their Keepers was far greater than in the modern era. their motives. Not all privateers like the True Fae; some 
It wasn’t until changelings truly began to form a society of would be consumed by their hatred, if they weren’t con-
their own that the numbers of loyalists dwindled. sumed by their avarice. Not all True Loyalists serve the 

True Fae out of love — some receive exotic goods or other 
The psychology of the Loyal is indelibly, ineffably hu- payment for leal service.

man, however; so long as the Fae drag humans to Arca-
dia, some will long for it, long after they’ve left. Keepers 
and Huntsmen sense these psychological breaking points Hedge Ghosts
with the frightening accuracy of someone who knows the It’s easy to get lost in the Hedge. It’s easy to wander 
Lost intimately. The changeling’s new life becomes one of among the brambles, hoping for a break in the growth 
subtle coercion, gentle threats, and then outright intimi- and a glimpse of familiar ground that never comes. It’s 
dation, an attempt to bring the Lost back into the circle easy to stumble into a pit lined with walls that weep real 
of his Keeper. tears, sadness slicking the surface so you can’t climb back 

Unforgiving attitudes still hold fast among the out. It’s easy to crash through the branches into an open 
courts, though some have recently shown signs of being area, only to find you’ve wandered into a circle of hungry 
more sympathetic to the plight of the loyalist, trying to trolls arguing over which protein goes best with their stew. 
bring them into the fold rather than condemning them (Surprise, it’s you.)
outright. It’s easy to die in the Hedge, and the dead tend to 

stick around.
Storytelling  Not all Hedge ghosts, however, are former change-
the Loyal lings or humans. Emotions shape the Hedge: strong im-

pressions of fear and pain, joy and rapture, feelings that 
True Loyalists and privateers differ from Bridge- can grow so overwhelming that they awaken as their own 

Burners in that they’re more insidious. They degrade the entities. Travelers passing through the Hedge also leave 
cohesion of changeling society from within, rather than pieces of themselves behind, bits of their souls that snag 
representing an external threat. Still, for all that, Loy- on the Thorns. A potent enough Icon may detach itself 
alists and privateers aren’t necessarily any more danger- and continue wandering, or a hobgoblin seamstress may 
ous than anyone else in any given freehold. What they gather Icons up and sew them into something new, made 
do, however, is heighten Changeling’s mood of paranoia entirely out of other scraps of souls.

Hedge Ghosts 245



Creating  Regardless of which gate it passes through, it uses the fol-

Hedge Ghosts lowing rules. A Hedge ghost caught in a dream when a 
Bastion is destroyed (p. 222) must escape in the same way 

Hedge ghost creation is similar to the rules for other a changeling would or suffer the same consequences. 
ephemeral beings in the Chronicles of Darkness Rule- Cost: 1 Willpower
book on p. 122, with a few notable differences. First, 
the Storyteller decides on the Hedge ghost’s Wyrd (not Dice Pool: Finesse + Wyrd − Resolve
Rank), ranging from 1 to 10. Wyrd determines how many Action: Instant
dots the Storyteller can spend on other traits, as follows: Roll Results

The term “Hedge ghost” is what changelings have Success: The Hedge ghost enters the target’s dreams. 
come to call these spectral beings, but they are separate When the target wakes, the ghost receives points of Glamour 
entities from traditional ghosts; their Anchors are strange, equal to the number of successes the Storyteller rolled.
and they don’t often interact with the mortal world.

Exceptional Success: The Hedge ghost enters the 
Glamour target’s dreams and finds a trove of emotionally resonant 

elements at the surface of the target’s thoughts: fears and 
While ordinary ghosts and spirits use Essence to fuel hopes, the best and worst days of her life, the faces of her 

their powers, Hedge ghosts rely on Glamour. These enti- loved ones. The Hedge ghost receives two points of Glam-
ties harvest Glamour in much the same way changelings our for every success instead.
do: by leeching it from the emotions of passing travelers, 
or by consuming goblin fruits and other Hedge bounties. Failure: The Hedge ghost is unable to enter the tar-
Hedge ghosts can harvest Glamour from ambient emo- get’s dreams.
tions (p. 103), but they can’t reap it. They can only har- Dramatic Failure: The Hedge ghost not only fails to 
vest Glamour from mortals or other Hedge ghosts, but a control the target’s dreams, but actually gets trapped with-
changeling may voluntarily give up Glamour to a Hedge in them until the target wakes up naturally. The Hedge 
ghost with a touch. ghost is only an observer. It can’t deliberately evoke emo-

Dreams are also a potential source of Glamour for tions or harvest Glamour, although the dreamer might 
Hedge ghosts. While they can’t access all the benefits experience nightmares naturally due to its presence, and 
of oneiromancy, Hedge ghosts may attempt to influence it takes one point of lethal damage plus one for each dot 
their victim’s dreams, manipulating whatever story the of Supernatural Tolerance its victim possesses.
dream is playing out to evoke a particular emotion. This Attributes and Skills
may involve the Hedge ghost calling up a particular fond 
memory for the dreamer to relive, or causing someone the Hedge ghosts use a condensed set of Attributes for 
dreamer loves or hates intensely to appear, or dredging their rolls, based on the Power, Finesse, and Resistance 
up their deepest fears and letting the nightmare unspool. categories for mortal characters. Hedge ghosts that were 

To enter its target’s dreams, the Hedge ghost must previously living characters may take an average of their 
find and breach its target’s Bastion through the Gate of Attribute ratings in each of the three categories.
Horn (p. 217), or pass through the Gate of Ivory directly Power represents the raw ability of the Hedge ghost 
into a sleeper’s dreams by touching the target’s physical to impose itself on the world around it. Use Power for rolls 
body or dream form. It enters dreams in its usual form. that require Strength, Intelligence, or Presence. 

Hedge Ghost Wyrd
Trait Attribute Maximum 

Wyrd* Limits** Dots Glamour Numina Total Frailties
1-2 5 dots 5-8 10 1-3 One minor
3-4 7 dots 9-14 15 3-5 Two minor
5-6 9 dots 15-25 20 5-7 One major, two minor
7-8 12 dots 26-35 25 7-9 One major, three minor
9-10 15 dots 36-45 50 9-11 Two major, three minor

*Wyrd is the Hedge ghost’s Supernatural Tolerance trait; for every two dots of Wyrd it possesses, impose a −1 
modifier on attempts to forcibly bind it
**These represent permanent dots, not temporarily boosted ones.

246 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Finesse represents how deftly the Hedge ghost acts, when the Hedge ghost is injured. Corpus boxes don’t have 
when fine control is required. Use Finesse for rolls that wound penalties associated with them.
require Dexterity, Wits, or Manipulation. Willpower: Willpower is equal to Finesse + Resistance, 

Resistance represents how easily the Hedge ghost up to a maximum of 10. Normally, Hedge ghosts regain 
avoids or rebuffs attempts to control or harm it. Use Resis- Willpower at the rate of one point per day, but time can run 
tance for rolls that require Stamina, Resolve, or Composure. strangely in the Hedge. Rather than a 24-hour cycle, Hedge 

Hedge ghosts don’t possess Skills, but don’t suffer un- ghosts’ Willpower may return based on an event that occurs 
skilled penalties as long as the action they’re attempting regularly: when the thistleflower unfurls its petals, when the 
makes sense for their nature. The Storyteller rolls their seven sable horses of Lady Rosewing reach the crossroads, or 
Attribute + Rank for most actions, or Attribute + At- at the briarwolf’s howl upon waking.
tribute for actions like surprise and perception. If the Hedge ghost is a being born of the Hedge or 

The Storyteller can spend Glamour to boost an Attri- crafted by the True Fae, it regains one point of Willpower 
bute on a one-point-per-dot basis for the scene. She can’t per three points of Glamour stolen from its victims.
boost a single trait by more than half its Wyrd, rounded Anchors: Like changelings, Hedge ghosts have 
up; boosting takes a turn, and she can only boost one At- Threads. However, Hedge ghosts’ Threads don’t stem from 
tribute per turn. personal motivations, but instead reflect the circumstances 

behind their creations, the places they haunt, or the drives 
Advantages of their creators. Once per scene, if a player character causes 

Hedge ghosts don’t have a Clarity or Integrity trait. a Hedge ghost to affirm its Thread, the player gains a Beat. 
Because their traits are simplified, Hedge ghosts calculate Hedge ghosts who affirm their Threads refresh their Will-
derived traits differently from other characters. power following the Thread rules on p. 95.

Corpus: Hedge ghosts’ physical forms are often mal- A former living character who died in the Hedge re-
leable, and don’t suffer injuries the same way changeling tains the character’s Vice or Needle trait. Once per chap-
bodies do. Instead of Health, Hedge ghosts have Corpus, ter, the Hedge ghost may regain all spent Willpower by 
equal to Resistance + Size, which acts like Health boxes fulfilling its Vice or Needle. No Hedge ghost has a Virtue.

Hedge Ghosts 247



Initiative: Initiative is equal to Finesse + Resistance. damage and penalties, such as discorporation or entrap-
Defense: Defense is equal to the lower of Power or ment for a time, especially with major frailties.

Finesse. Hedge ghosts apply Defense against all mundane These frailties are connected to the means of the 
attacks, including firearms. Hedge ghost’s creation. The ghost of a changeling who 

Speed: Speed is equal to Power + Finesse. died seeking a way out of the Hedge must stop and try any 
Size: Hedge ghosts can be any size. Human and doorknob she spies. If the Weeping Groom can be made 

changeling ghosts are usually Size 5, while Hedge ghosts to laugh, he loses his form until the next sunrise. The 
whose origins lie in the Hedge itself use half their Wyrd, Ragdoll Ghost falls to pieces if its foe possesses a patch 
rounded up, as their Size. from the same clothing it’s made of. Whispering Kate will 

speak the location of someone’s long lost love if they bring 
Injuries her petals from roses that dried on her grave.

Physical attacks on a Hedge ghost that would nor- Cold iron is an additional bane frailty for all Hedge 
mally cause lethal damage only cause bashing damage un- ghosts. An item made from cold iron inflicts one level of ag-
less the attack utilized a bane frailty. Despite appearing to gravated damage per turn while it’s in contact with the en-
the naked eye and being solid, a Hedge ghost doesn’t have tity. Weapons made from cold iron deal aggravated damage.
any internal organs to injure. Hedge ghosts lose one point Influence
of Glamour for each aggravated wound they suffer.

A Hedge ghost that loses all Corpus from lethal or Hedge ghosts have a degree of Influence over the 
aggravated wounds explodes into a burst of Glamour, but world, which they can leverage to create situations that 
if it had any Glamour points remaining, it can reform in provide them with Glamour. They begin with dots in In-
the Hedge once enough time has passed for it to regain fluence equal to half their Wyrd, rounded up. That value 
Glamour points equal to its Corpus dots. is also the maximum rating for an Influence, but a Hedge 

ghost can split its dots to have more than one Influence. A 
Hedge ghosts heal at the same rate as changeling Wyrd 6 Hedge ghost that froze to death in the Hedge, for 

characters (p. 188). The Storyteller may also spend example, might have Influence: Cold •• and Influence: 
Willpower to heal a Hedge ghost’s wounds. One point Lethargy •. Hedge ghosts may reduce their number of Nu-
of Willpower heals two points of bashing damage or mina granted by Wyrd to increase Influence dots, at a cost 
one point of lethal damage, as an instant action. It of 1 Numen per dot.
takes five Willpower and a day’s rest to heal one point 
of aggravated damage. Influence is measured in both scale and duration. 

To use an Influence, compare the Hedge ghost’s Influ-
Aggravated wounds healed by Willpower leave silvery ence rating to the total dots of the intended effect and 

scars and other permanent markings on the Hedge ghost’s how long it is to last. The total must be equal to or less 
form. They patch themselves up by memory, sometimes than the entity’s Influence rating in order to attempt the 
stitching wounds with scraps of clothing caught on the Influence.
Thorns. 

The entity pays the listed cost in Glamour and rolls 
Frailties Power + Finesse, with success creating the desired effect. 

If the Influence alters the thoughts or emotions of a sen-
Like changelings, Hedge ghosts suffer from frailties tient being, the target contests it with Resolve or Com-

(p. 102). Unlike changelings’ frailties, the consequences posure (whichever is higher) + Supernatural Tolerance.
of a Hedge ghost’s frailty could be something other than 

Influence Effects
Level Effect Cost
• Strengthen The Hedge ghost can enhance its sphere of influence. 1 Glamour
•• Manipulate The Hedge ghost can make minor changes within its sphere of influence. 2 Glamour
••• Control The Hedge ghost can make dramatic changes within its sphere of 3 Glamour

influence.
•••• Create The Hedge ghost can create a new example of its sphere of influence. 4 Glamour
••••• Mass Create The Hedge ghost can create multiple examples of its sphere of influence,  5 Glamour

of a number up to half its Wyrd, rounded up; or it can create one example 
permanently, though it can’t permanently alter the mind of a sentient being.

248 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Influence Durations
Level Duration Cost Ephemeral Entities in 
0 One minute per N/A the Hedge

success
• 10 minutes per success N/A The Hedge has no Twilight state. Hedge 

ghosts that dematerialize are just incorporeal 
•• One hour per success +1 Glamour and invisible. A Hedge ghost that ventures into 
••• One day per success +2 Glamour the mortal world doesn’t fall into a Twilight 

state there, either, but it dematerializes auto-
•••• Permanent +2 Glamour matically even if it doesn’t know that Numen, 
Manifestation and must spend three Glamour points to ma-

terialize for one scene; it can only do so if at 
Hedge ghosts don’t need to spend Glamour to mani- least one of its spheres of Influence is present.

fest physically and visibly inside the Hedge, but they must 
have the Dematerialize Numen (below) if they want to Other ephemeral entities who end up in the 

Hedge automatically materialize even if they 
lurk unseen there. normally couldn’t.

If a Hedge ghost’s Glamour pool fully depletes, it 
takes one point of lethal damage to its Corpus for every 
hour it goes without replenishing Glamour.

While Hedge ghosts do try to draw in mortals who Sense Glamour: Hedge ghosts spend much of their 
pass by Hedge gates, they rarely venture into the mortal time in pursuit of Glamour. They’re drawn to it, whether 
world itself, nor are they likely to enter Arcadia. This is in living beings, in goblin fruits, or in items imbued with 
partly because the Hedge is home; it’s where they hold the it. A Hedge ghost in need of Glamour senses it when a 
most power, and in many cases, Hedge ghosts are made source is within (Wyrd x five) yards/meters.
from the stuff of the Hedge itself. They also see what To Market, To Market: Goblins hold market all 
becomes of creatures who catch the Gentry’s fancy, and throughout the Hedge. By spending 2 Glamour, the Hedge 
have no wish to become (or in some cases, return to be- ghost knows where the closest Goblin Market currently run-
ing) a True Fae’s bauble. Hedge ghosts entering the mortal ning is located. Some ghosts offer this as a service to travel-
world or Arcadia act at half their effective Wyrd, reducing ers, asking for payment in Glamour or goblin fruits to make 
all traits and losing access to Numina and Influences ac- up for what they spend to acquire the information.
cordingly. They take one point of lethal damage to their 
Corpus for every turn they go without replenishing their Hedge Ghost Numina
Glamour once it’s depleted in the mortal world, or bashing Hedge ghosts possess powers called Numina. Each 
in Arcadia. Numen is a single ability, activated by a successful Power 
Common Powers + Finesse roll and an instant action unless stated other-

wise, linked to the ghost’s nature.
All Hedge ghosts have four supernatural powers that 

help them navigate life in the Hedge. How a particular Numen manifests depends on the 
nature and themes of the entity using it. A Hedge ghost 

Path Through the Thorns: For visitors to the Hedge, using the Sign Numen might shape its message in a tangle 
stepping off the paths into the Thorns is a dangerous, and of brambles. A Hedge ghost’s Blast mimics the feeling of 
often deadly, action. Hedge ghosts are no longer suscepti- Thorns tearing at a changeling’s soul.
ble to the confusion that sets in as the Thorns press close 
and the Hedge shifts around the traveler. Spending 1 For more Numina, see the Chronicles of Darkness 
Willpower allows the Hedge ghost to face in the direction Rulebook, starting on p. 136.
she needs to go and pass through the Thorns unscathed.

Reach: A Hedge ghost can spend 1 Glamour while AGGRESSIVE MEME
standing in front of a Hedge gate to reach across it into 
the mortal world for the scene. It can use any of its In-
fluences, or Numina with the “R” tag, on targets within The ghost speaks to a person and plants an idea in 
(ghost’s Wyrd) yards/meters of the other side of the gate, their mind. When that person tells someone else the idea, 
even if it’s closed. Characters capable of perceiving Hedge it takes hold in their mind, too, as well as in the minds 
gates can sense the ghost’s reach with a successful Wits + of whomever they tell. The Numen costs 7 Glamour to 
Composure roll. activate, and is contested by Resolve + Composure + Su-

pernatural Tolerance.

Hedge Ghosts 249



Make the activation roll once; anyone coming within five 

BLAST yards of the ghost must roll Resolve + Composure + Su-
pernatural Tolerance. If the activation roll had more suc-
cesses, the victim suffers a −2 dice penalty to all actions 

The ghost wounds opponents at a distance. Range as long as the aura remains. If the victim gains more suc-
equals 10 yards per dot of Power, and the ghost does not suf- cesses, he is immune to the aura unless the ghost uses the 
fer range penalties. If the activation roll succeeds, the Blast Numen again.
wounds as a lethal weapon. Increase the lethality by paying 
Glamour — every 2 Glamour spent increases the “weapon 
rating” by one, to a maximum of half the ghost’s Wyrd. ENTRAP

CLARITY DRAIN The Hedge ghost calls brambles, thorns, and vines 
from the ground, or uses an otherworldly voice to stop 
its victim from a distance. The Numen costs 2 Glamour 

The Hedge ghost attacks the changeling’s Clarity, shak- to activate, contested by the victim’s Dexterity + Super-
ing his ability to trust his own perceptions. This Numen costs natural Tolerance. If the Hedge ghost succeeds, one op-
2 Glamour to activate. The Storyteller rolls a Clarity attack ponent within a number of yards or meters equal to the 
against the target with dice equal to half the target’s Wyrd, Hedge ghost’s Finesse suffers the Immobilized Tilt with 
rounded up, in place of the Numen’s usual activation roll. a −4 penalty; the Durability of the “item” holding her is 

equal to half the Hedge ghost’s Wyrd (rounded up) +1 for 

DEMATERIALIZE every 2 additional Glamour spent, and the Hedge ghost is 
free to take other actions while its prey is restrained.

For 3 Glamour, the Hedge ghost fades from sight and 
becomes incorporeal. It may still use its Influences and FAILED TOKEN
any Numina that don’t require touching the target or 
being perceived, but it can’t physically interact with any- Tokens the victim carries lose their effectiveness. 
thing — even other incorporeal creatures. The Hedge ghost spends 3 Glamour + 1 Willpower to 

activate the Numen. The victim contests with her Super-

DEMENT natural Tolerance. Success means supernatural abilities 
tied to the token stop working for the remainder of the 
scene; using the token as a mundane weapon suffers a 

The ghost tortures its victim’s mind. The Numen two-die penalty.
costs 1 Glamour, and the activation roll is contested by 
the victim’s Intelligence + Supernatural Tolerance. If the 
ghost succeeds, the victim suffers the Insane Tilt (p. 330) HALLUCINATION
for the rest of the scene.

The ghost may create an illusion experienced by a 

DRAIN single target; anything from a sight or sound to an imagi-
nary person that holds a conversation. The Numen costs 
1 Glamour and is contested by the victim’s Wits + Com-

The ghost can steal Glamour or Willpower (chosen at posure + Supernatural Tolerance. Each success over the 
activation) from a non-ephemeral being. The activation roll is contesting roll alters one of the victim’s senses.
contested by Stamina + Resolve + Supernatural Tolerance. 
Whichever character — Hedge ghost or target — gains the 
most successes receives points of Willpower or Glamour equal IMPLANT MISSION 
to successes, while the other party loses the same number.

This Numen grants a mortal a vision of a task the 

EMOTIONAL AURA ghost wishes him to accomplish, and a magical determi-
nation to see it through. The ghost pays 2 Glamour and 
rolls Power + Finesse. On a success, the subject receives 

The ghost sends out a wave of powerful — and dis- a short vision of whatever the ghost wishes him to do, 
tracting — emotion. This Numen costs 1 Glamour, and and gains the Obsessed Condition regarding carrying that 
lasts for a scene, or until the ghost uses another Numina. mission out.

250 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Example  
KEEPER’S CALLING Hedge Ghosts

The Lingering Dead were living, once. They were 
The Hedge ghost makes its target believe her Keep- humans who had the misfortune to enter the Hedge, and 

er is just on the other side of the brambles, seeking to never found their way out. They were changelings who 
recapture her. The Numen costs 2 Glamour to activate, veered from safe paths and wound up face-to-face with 
contested by the victim’s Composure + Supernatural wandering nightmares. They are all that was left once the 
Tolerance. If the ghost is successful, the victim believes briarwolves were done feasting, or after the loyalist’s silver 
her Keeper is nearby for the rest of the scene: The voice blade slipped into their hearts. These ghosts are the im-
is exact, the scent of her Keeper’s perfume is just as she pressions and raw emotions of lives once lived, and none 
remembers it, the rustle of her skirts sounds like it always of them can get home. A stronger ghost might still have 
did. a purpose it hopes to fulfill, and haunts its old entrances 

to the Hedge hoping one of its motley (or someone remi-

RAPTURE niscent of them) will come through and help them carry 
out its final acts. 

Hollow-haunts are anchored to particular Hollows 
The ghost forces a response from the pleasure cen- in the Hedge, in the same manner as ghosts are bound to 

ters of a living being’s brain, granting ecstatic visions, a houses in the mundane world. A Hollow’s residents tend 
feeling of communion with the universe, and sensations to fiercely defend it, but a particularly cozy or well-situ-
of bliss. The Numen costs 2 Glamour. If successful, the ated Hollow can attract the attention (and the envy) of 
victim suffers the Insensate Tilt (p. 330). If the victim other Hedge denizens. Some Hollow-haunts want a Hol-
fails a Resolve + Supernatural Tolerance roll, she gains low badly enough to go to murderous lengths to claim it 
a mental or emotional Condition that binds her closer to for their own. Other times, the Hollow’s original inhabit-
the entity’s wishes. ant isn’t ready to give up its space, and continues defend-

ing its Hollow long after death. 

SIGN The Phantom Hitchhiker of the Trods is an urban 
legend among changelings, especially in freeholds whose 
cities are host to major trods. The Lost in these places tell 

The ghost creates messages or images in any medium stories — often ones they heard from a Wisp who knew 
in a way appropriate to the medium. The Numen costs 1 this Gargoyle who knew this Wizened — of motleys trav-
Glamour, and if successful creates a single message. eling along a trod who suddenly found themselves joined 

by another traveler. She’s always a quiet girl, polite and 

SPEED a little shy. Sometimes she simply walks alongside them 
awhile before she vanishes just as mysteriously as she ar-
rived. Sometimes she asks to borrow a jacket, or begs a 

The ghost accelerates into a blur of movement. Spend bite of food. A few stories say she’s mentioned her free-
2 Glamour when activating this Numen to double its hold, and when the motley’s gone to tell the Lost there 
Speed for the scene; spend 4 to triple it. about the encounter, they learn she disappeared decades 

ago. She headed into the Hedge and was never seen again. 

STALWART The Ragdoll Ghost was created in the Hedge and, 
in a sense, created from the Hedge. A faerie seamstress 
meandered among the Thorns, plucking bright scraps 

The ghost appears armored, and uses Resistance in- of Icons from among their jagged points. When she had 
stead of the lower of Power or Finesse as its Defense score. enough, in all the colors and emotions she liked best, she 

sewed them together with thread-of-gold and shaped them 
into a doll. Its stuffing is a mix of thistledown and duck 

STOLEN MASKS feathers and tufts of changeling hair left snagged among 
the brambles. The ghost awakened when she sewed the 

The Hedge ghost steals the target’s appearance. The last stitch, its thoughts a jumble of feelings and memories 
Numen costs 1 Glamour to activate, contested by the vic- from its many lives. The seamstress is long gone, but the 
tim’s Presence + Supernatural Tolerance. If successful, Ragdoll Ghost still wanders, drawn to those who travel 
the Hedge ghost becomes an exact replica of its victim the Hedge, hoping it will find someone whose soul con-
until the next sunrise or sunset. tains a piece of its own.

Hedge Ghosts 251



Hobgoblins aid. Having a hobgoblin and her Dread Powers on the 
characters’ side can be just as interesting a tale as going 

The Hedge is a liminal space, the in-between realm toe-to-cloven hoof with her.
where aspects of Arcadia and the mortal world coex-
ist and bleed together. Hobgoblins, the denizens of the Concept 
Hedge, are as numerous as the stars in the sky. They are What inspirations from fairy tales and folklore might 
strange and lovely and terrible, some born of the Hedge inform the hobgoblin? Are there aspects of the characters’ 
or twisted by it, others crafted by the True Fae and for- stories that the hobgoblins could play on? Their back-
gotten, discarded and left to fend for themselves among stories and durances, intrigue within their freehold and 
the brambles. Many were beings from the mundane world courts, and their goals and Aspirations all are potential 
who made one too many fae deals, or found a way into the fodder.
Hedge and became trapped there, the Thorns leeching 
away what they used to be and warping them into weirder, Hobgoblin Aspirations are wildly different than 
truer versions of their old selves. those of most mortals. All hobgoblins should have at least 

one Aspiration; like player characters, they may have two 
Hobgoblins can be as tiny as a mote of dust or as short-term and one long-term. Some might put change-

vast as the sky. Many are innocuous tricksters, intrigued lings in danger, especially if a short-term Aspiration is 
by the Lost that pass by their nests and wanting nothing along the lines of “make a cloak from Ogre skins.” Oth-
more than to pluck a strand of hair to satisfy their curios- ers may make the hobgoblin more relatable, like “free my 
ity. Others are predators, seeking out the satisfying crack children from the Witch of the Wilds.” A hobgoblin may 
of mortal bones between their hundreds of teeth. keep the same or similar Aspirations after fulfilling them, 

It’s not always clear which is which. for goals like “suffer not a mortal to leave my shop without 
Many hobgoblins carve out Hollows, pushing back making a deal.”

the Thorns to make a safe haven and a home for them-
selves. These might look inviting to a weary traveler, but Wyrd
that is often precisely the point: Lure in the prey, ply them Hobgoblins have a Wyrd rating from one to 10 dots, 
with sweets and songs until their lids grow heavy, then just like changelings, that measures their raw supernatu-
strike. ral power. This value determines how many maximum 

dots are available to spend on the character’s Attributes, 
Creating Hobgoblins Skills, Dread Powers, and Merits.

Hobgoblins are amalgams of both nightmares and Hobgoblins can’t harvest or reap Glamour from hu-
fairy tales, and are never, ever entirely what they seem. mans. They must rely on goblin fruits, making deals, and 
However, not all hobgoblins have their hearts set on bak- the Bottle Glamour power (below) to replenish their pools. 
ing passing changelings into pies. Some dwellers in the A goblin who makes a deal for Glamour in exchange for 
Hedge might become allies, or have need of the motley’s something else doesn’t need Bottle Glamour to receive it; 

Hobgoblin Wyrd
Max 

Trait Attribute Dread Glamour/
Wyrd Limits** Dots Skill Dots Powers Contracts Merit Dots Per Turn
1 5 dots 15-18 10 3 2 3 6/1
2 6 dots 19-22 15 3 2 5 7/2
3 7 dots 23-26 20 3 2 7 8/3
4 8 dots 27-30 25 4 3 9 9/4
5 9 dots 31-34 30 4 3 11 10/5
6 10 dots 35-38 35 4 3 13 12/6
7 10 dots 39-42 40 5 4 15 15/7
8 10 dots 43-46 45 6 4 17 20/8
9 10 dots 47-50 50 7 5 19 30/9
10 10 dots 51+ 55 8 5 21 50/10

**These maximums represent permanent trait dots, not traits boosted by Dread Powers or other effects.

252 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



the Wyrd ensures the transaction is possible, adding the Athletics Skill. Its Willpower is its Resolve + Composure, 
paid Glamour directly to its pool through an agreed-upon and works just like a changeling’s does.
method of sealing the deal. Use the hobgoblin’s most appropriate Finesse Attri-

Anchors bute + Wyrd for a Clash of Wills (p. 126) if its powers 
come into conflict with other supernatural abilities.

Like humans, a hobgoblin has a Virtue and a Vice, Hobgoblins have frailties just like changelings do 
but what a goblin considers “virtuous” or “vice-ridden” (p. 102), and like all fae, cold iron is one of them. Handling 
might vary significantly from what others would. To make or touching cold iron is extremely painful, and weapons 
a hobgoblin feel alien and strange, consider odd anchors made of cold iron inflict aggravated damage on hobgob-
like Murderous as a Virtue or Silent as a Vice. lins. Deciding whether the hobgoblin has other frailties 
Attributes and Skills is also helpful in rounding out the character. They aren’t 

required, but may provide additional insight into the hob-
When assigning the hobgoblin’s Attributes and Skills goblin’s backstory, or give the motley an interesting angle 

as determined by his Wyrd, the Storyteller does not have to pursue.
to assign points based on the Physical, Social, and Mental Hobgoblins belong in the Hedge, and generally stay 
categories, but instead should let the hobgoblin’s abilities there. A hobgoblin reduces the total needed successes to 
and backstory guide him. Consider which traits makes the win any navigation contest in the Hedge by one (p. 200). 
most sense for the character and distribute points accord- Goblins may venture into Arcadia to deal with the Gen-
ingly. try or captive changelings, and the Fae conscript goblins 
Dread Powers and Con- into their service and whisk them away there. A goblin in 

tracts the mortal world suffers the Deprived Condition; goblins 
with Wyrd 6+ must bring a piece of the Hedge with them, 

Wyrd also determines the maximum number of and can only stay until the sun next crosses the horizon 
Dread Powers and Contracts the hobgoblin may possess; without other magic to keep them from vanishing back to 
each dot of a Dread Power with multiple levels counts as a the Hedge.
separate power. A list of Dread Powers is below, and more The Storyteller may always dial these traits up or down 
appear in the Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook, start- according to the purpose a hobgoblin serves in the story.
ing on p. 144. Hobgoblins always spend Glamour, rather 
than Willpower, to activate Dread Powers. Dread Powers

Hobgoblins may only learn Common Arcadian Con- Dread Powers are the inherent supernatural pow-
tracts and Goblin Contracts. ers hobgoblins possess. Many of the descriptions for the 
Merits Dread Powers listed below don’t have dice pools assigned 

to them; tailor the pool to the hobgoblin using the power. 
Merits can help flesh out the character. Does the hob- Consider how the hobgoblin’s backstory, disposition, and 

goblin have Allies, or oathbound changelings who act as appearance would affect the way the power manifests. 
Retainers? How might a hobgoblin’s Library appear with- How does it wield the power? What does it look and feel 
in the Hedge, and what books appear on those shelves? like to the target? To observers? 
Money from the mundane world isn’t all that useful in the Likewise, range requirements and other restrictions 
Hedge — what form would the wealth of a hobgoblin with are left to the Storyteller to determine, depending on 
high Resources take? what makes the most sense for the hobgoblin. A serpent-
Advantages and Frailties like hobgoblin may have to wrap itself around its victim to 

squeeze the Glamour out, while a pixie can dart in, steal 
Hobgoblins’ Sizes and Speeds vary widely. Some are a drop of blood, and flee to her treetop nest to siphon off 

no taller than a blade of grass, while others only have the changeling’s Glamour. 
to crane their necks a bit to see what’s at the top of the 
beanstalk. How quickly (or whether) the creature can Some hobgoblins must perform certain tasks before 
move might depend more on their present environment they can harm their victims, though many try to find ways 
than the length of their stride. What form they’ve taken to hew to the letter of the law rather than its spirit. For 
matters, too: The each-uisge moves at the same Speed on example, the Man with the Crystal Smile has to warn 
land or water when it’s a horse, but in its human form, it’s his prey before the chase begins. However, he tends to 
much slower. couch his warning in such sweet patter and flowery lan-

guage that a charmed changeling might miss the threat. 
A hobgoblin’s Health is its Size + Stamina. Its Ini- All that matters is that he deliver it, not whether it’s ac-

tiative Modifier is its Dexterity + Composure. Defense knowledged. 
is the lower of the hobgoblin’s Wits or Dexterity plus its 

Hobgoblins 253



to drive him away from a particular area. Physical attacks 

BEASTMASTER may range from the creatures plucking out strands of hair 
to biting and stinging, depending on their natures. The 
creatures act like a hive mind, following the instructions 

The hobgoblin has mastery over lesser beasts. By of the one who summoned them.
spending 1 Glamour, it can conjure up a swarm of ver-
min, small animals, or Hedge beasts as appropriate to its 
nature. These creatures obey its commands, and it can HOME GROUND
communicate with them clearly. It can also use this power 
on a single larger creature.

The hobgoblin has a specific form of home ground on 
which it gains supernatural bonuses. This might be a certain 

BOTTLE GLAMOUR market or grove, or it could be the blood of a fresh kill or ash 
from a house it has burned down. While on its home ground, 
the hobgoblin gains +3 dice to all its physical dice pools and 

The hobgoblin can store Glamour for later, either pull- Influence rolls, reduces all damage suffered by three, and 
ing it from its own stores or stealing it from elsewhere. It can gains +3 dice to rolls to contest supernatural effects.
spend Glamour equal to the amount it wants to bottle + 1 
to store its own reserves, in anything from a literal bottle, 
to a song, to a weapon. Alternatively, it can spend 1 Glam- HYPNOTIC GAZE
our and touch a target with her own Glamour pool to steal 
points equal to the hobgoblin’s Wyrd, and those points are 
squirreled away. Goblins can trade or sell Glamour, use it for The hobgoblin’s gaze can charm and beguile. When 
powers or tokens when their own reserves are empty, or use meeting the target’s gaze, it can spend 1 Glamour and roll 
it as an ingredient in strange fae sorceries. Presence + Persuasion contested by the target’s Compo-

sure. If successful, the hobgoblin counts as having a per-
fect impression against the target for Social maneuvers 

CHAMELEON HORROR until the end of the scene.

The hobgoblin can blend into its surrounding envi- IMMORTAL
ronment, matching not just the colors but even the tex-
tures and characteristics of what lies around it; this ap-
plies a −3 penalty on all rolls to perceive it, increased to Mortal laws of life and death don’t bind the hobgob-
−6 if it remains still. lin. It’s not indestructible, per se, but if anything other 

than a bane frailty kills it, it just comes back in a later 
scene like nothing happened. Even if it’s destroyed with 

CONJURE DREAMS a frailty, it’s never really gone — some accursed ritual, 
astrological conjunction, or freak occurrence can always 
bring the creature back for a sequel story.

By spending 2 Glamour, the hobgoblin warps its terri-
tory within the Hedge to resemble the setting of a victim’s 
recurring dream. This dream may be good or bad, with the 
hobgoblin attempting to either keep the victim in a place INFLUENCE (• TO •••••)
they don’t want to leave, or chase them endlessly through 
one they can’t escape. Once per hour, the target may roll Much like a Hedge ghost, this hobgoblin has Influence 
Wits + Composure + Supernatural Tolerance, contested by over a certain phenomenon. Using Influence doesn’t require 
the hobgoblin’s Resolve + Wyrd, to see through the illusion. a roll unless a character directly opposes the activation. For 

contested or resisted actions, decide on an Attribute + Skill 
dice pool that fits with the hobgoblin’s nature.

FAIRY SWARM
JUMP SCARE

The hobgoblin is (or becomes) one of a swarm or 
hive. By spending 1 Glamour, she calls the others to her 
to surround and attack the target. Swarming serves a va- The hobgoblin appears suddenly or lurches into abrupt 
riety of purposes: simply to annoy the victim, to distract action just when you thought it was down for the count. By 
him from taking another action, to obscure his view, or spending 1 Glamour, the goblin may resolve the Shaken 

Condition on another character, choosing which action will 

254 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



automatically fail. The character still earns a Beat as nor- •	 Granting any Merit, Skill, or Attribute at 5 dots.
mal. Alternatively, the hobgoblin may spend 1 Glamour to 
turn the automatic failure caused by a character resolving •	 Causing a mortal to die.
the Shaken Condition into a dramatic failure.

•	 Fulfilling one of the target’s Aspirations.
The hobgoblin cannot do any of these things unless 

KNOW SOUL explicitly asked to by a living human being. Some hobgob-
lins can grant virtually any wish imaginable, others might 

The hobgoblin can see into the depths of its victim’s only be able to grant one very specific request. Some-
soul. By spending 1 Glamour, it automatically learns the times it’s not the goblin itself that grants the wish, but a 
victim’s Virtue, Vice, Aspirations, and current Integrity. By part of its body; dragon blood might cure all sickness, for 
spending an additional Glamour, it learns the circumstances instance. Most hobgoblins can only grant one to three 
of the character’s most recent failed breaking point. Subse- wishes to a given person, and wishing for more wishes is, 
quent Glamour points reveal older breaking points. If the of course, verboten.
hobgoblin uses its knowledge against the victim, it earns an Finally, magic of this sort comes with a price above 
exceptional success on a roll of three successes or more. Used and beyond Goblin Debt. When the hobgoblin grants a 
against changeling characters, this power works identically target’s wish, one of the target’s Aspirations is destroyed 
to the Huntsmen’s Kindred Spirits power (p. 266). utterly. The character will never be able to fulfill it or re-

place it with another Aspiration.

LETHE’S EMBRACE MIST FORM
The hobgoblin siphons off the target’s memories, stor-

ing them for later use. The hobgoblin spends 2 Glamour and The hobgoblin can turn itself into a gaseous form by 
makes eye contact with or touches the target. The victim spending 1 Glamour, whether becoming pure air, some 
rolls Wits + Resolve to contest the effect. The victim may sort of misty miasma, a cloud of blowing leaves, or a 
be able to recover the lost memories, perhaps by tracking swarm of crows. This form lasts for a scene or until the 
down the hobgoblin and shattering the vessel, or by visiting hobgoblin leaves it, allowing it to fly at its base Speed, slip 
the Goblin Markets and buying any items made from them. through cracks, and flow around obstacles.

MAZE MUCH DEPENDS 
ON DINNER

The hobgoblin can create an insane maze. By spending 3 
Glamour and touching a structure, it turns the interior cham- The hobgoblin conjures a banquet full of rare delica-
bers into a tangled mess of corridors and rooms that lead back cies and succulent treats. Anyone who sees or smells the 
on themselves; this effect lasts for an hour. Anyone other than delicious offerings is instantly, ravenously hungry, and is 
the hobgoblin who attempts to move through the building drawn to the table, where they eat their fill. Once per 
must succeed at a Wits + Composure check minus the gob- 15 minutes, the victims may roll Wits + Composure + 
lin’s Resolve each time they attempt to leave the area or prog- Supernatural Tolerance, contested by the hobgoblin’s 
ress through it to somewhere specific; if they fail, they simply Presence + Wyrd, to try to break free of the compulsion. 
get more lost. Used during Hedge navigation, this power in- Upon coming out of it, they learn the foods were only the 
stead imposes an additional, cumulative −1 penalty on all op- husks of long-dried goblin fruits, the salads nothing more 
ponents’ navigation rolls (other than the Hedge itself) for each than dead leaves. If they’re lucky, the pie fillings were mud 
turn of the chase, and the hobgoblin always has the Edge; the rather than spoiled meat or poisoned apples.
power still must be used inside a structure of some kind.

NATURAL WEAPONS 
MIRACLE (• TO •••)

The hobgoblin can perform miraculous feats upon re- The hobgoblin is armed with formidable natural 
quest. Miracles include, but aren’t limited to: weaponry, whether savage jaws, rending talons, bony 
•	 Removing (or applying) any Condition or Tilt (or spurs, or metallic blades. The weaponry has a weapon 

similar affliction not modeled by these mechanics). modifier and armor piercing quality equal to the number 

Hobgoblins 255



of dots in this Dread Power. If the hobgoblin’s natural 
weaponry includes a bite, it doesn’t need to establish a 
grapple to bite. SNARE

The hobgoblin can create a snare that entraps vic-
THE PATH NOT TAKEN tims, whether sticky webs, grasping roots or whipping 

metal cables. By spending 1 Glamour, the hobgoblin de-
notes an area of up to 10 square yards, and can grapple 

Leaving the path through the Hedge is one of the most any victims in the area using the snare, using its own At-
dangerous things a traveler can do. The hobgoblin spends 1 tributes and Skills with a +3 bonus to the dice pool.
Glamour and creates the illusion of a path running parallel 
to or branching off from the true path to lure victims off 
their courses. The false path ends in an area the hobgoblin 
controls: often a Hollow, sometimes its belly. UNBREAKABLE

The hobgoblin is nearly indestructible. Any attack 
PIED PIPER that does not score an exceptional success inflicts only 

a single point of bashing damage. Exceptional successes 
inflict damage as normal. Attacks incorporating iron or 

The hobgoblin plays an instrument, sings a song, or per- another of the goblin’s frailties bypass this power.
forms some other entertaining or mesmerizing action, and 
people in its vicinity are compelled to follow where it leads. It Hobgoblin Deals
spends 1 Glamour to activate this power. Victims may make 
a Resolve roll to attempt to break free. Those who fail the While hobgoblins can sell Contracts to changelings 
roll follow the goblin for a while before they may roll again. (see Goblin Contracts, p. 162), they also offer goods and 
The Storyteller determines the interval. It may be as simple services to changelings, mortals, and other creatures in 
as waiting 10 minutes, but may also be more appropriate to desperate need of magical solutions to impossible prob-
the scene: when the goblin’s song ends, for instance, or once lems. These deals accrue Goblin Debt more slowly than 
they’ve been led up one side of a hill and down the other. Contracts do, as they’re mainly one-time events and can’t 

be invoked at will like Goblin Contracts. But the funny 
thing about magical solutions is that they tend to attract 

PRODIGIOUS LEAP repeat customers.
Mortal needs may not always feel as epic as those out 

The hobgoblin can make great, bounding leaps; of fairy tales, but can seem no less insurmountable: An 
by spending 1 Glamour, it can jump about four stories office worker faced with filing 10 years’ worth of paper-
straight up or across a six-lane highway (or the equivalent work in a weekend might dearly wish he had to spin straw 
distance). into gold instead. For the price of a favor, a hobgoblin can 

take care of it before dawn. A warehouse worker walks a 
dozen miles a day picking orders. Her feet are sore, her 

REALITY STUTTER back aches. When she buys a pair of shoes from an old-
fashioned cobbler at the local flea market, it’s like she’s 

The hobgoblin’s presence sets reality stuttering and walking on air. Only, the soles wear out within a few 
convulsing, allowing it to flicker from place to place. By weeks. Before he’ll repair the shoes, the cobbler exacts a 
reflexively spending 1 Glamour when it moves, the hob- promise from her.
goblin can translocate itself to any location it can see up Each hobgoblin deal taken adds one point of Goblin 
to its Speed in meters away, seeming to observers to just Debt to the person’s tally. These include tasks the hob-
spasm in and out of reality as it goes. Doing so adds +2 to goblin completes over the course of a night or two, or 
its Defense for the turn. items that produce a single, minor magical effect. Items 

of this sort can only be used a few times before they break 
or run out. The wine that forces anyone who drinks it to 

REGENERATE (• TO •••••) tell the truth turns to vinegar at the next full moon. The 
mirror will show your true love’s whereabouts only twice, 

As a reflexive action once per turn, the hobgoblin then it shatters. 
can spend 1 Glamour per dot in the Regenerate Dread Changelings can shed Debts incurred this way the 
Power, healing one point of lethal damage or two points same way as they do with Debt gained from invoking Gob-
of bashing damage for each Glamour expended this way. lin Contracts. Mortals don’t have the same ability; Goblin 

256 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Debt accrues until, at 10 points, the mortal becomes a They eat meat, but like it best when it’s marinated 
hobgoblin herself, gaining the Hedge Denizen Condition in the victim’s terror and pain. The first time they catch 
(p. 340). Paying down the Debt before that point requires their prey, the briarwolves draw blood, but set their vic-
the mortal to part with something or someone dear to her: tim free. Such victims rarely get far, with another briar-
her firstborn child, memories of her grandmother, the use wolf appearing out of the night to swipe with its ragged 
of her voice for a year and a day, etc. claws or snap with its sharp, sharp teeth. They repeat 

Some hobgoblins consider their Debts paid in full this until the victim can run no longer, then fall upon 
if the mortal completes a very specific task: learning the him and feast.
hobgoblin’s true name, finding where he buried his heart, Mental Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 4, Resolve 3
or other nearly impossible feats. Physical Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 5, Stamina 4

Example Hobgoblins Social Attributes: Presence 2, Manipulation 1, 
Composure 2

Following are some hobgoblins for use in your Mental Skills: Investigation 3
chronicles.

Physical Skills: Athletics 2, Brawl (Claws) 5, Stealth 5, 
Briarwolves Survival (Tracking) 4

[Ragged, hungry panting] Social Skills: Empathy (Prey Reactions) 3, Intimidation 3

Background: Countless fairy tales and folktales tell Merits: Acute Senses, Arcadian Metabolism, Danger 
listeners about the danger of wolves. They’re the ultimate Sense, Iron Stamina 3
hunters, the hungry beasts that stalk nighttime forests Wyrd: 4
and snatch disobedient children into their gaping maws. Glamour/per Turn: 9/4
How much more frightening, then, are the wolves who Willpower: 5
live among the brambles, whose hunting grounds are the 
fear-tinged woods of the Hedge? Virtue: Cruel

No one is quite sure where the briarwolves came from. Vice: Lazy
Some theories posit that they were once wolves from the Aspiration: To hunt down the weak and taste their fear
mundane world who wandered their way into the Hedge and Initiative: 8
couldn’t get out. The Thorns tore at their pelts, and the fears Defense: 6
of changelings who grew up on tales of wolves’ cunning and 
cruelty twisted them into something even more terrible. Size: 5

Or perhaps they were the hunting hounds of the Speed: 15
Gentry. The True Fae are notorious for discarding what Health: 9
no longer holds their interest, and a fickle master may Frailties: May not step onto a trod uninvited (taboo)
have loosed his kennels on the Hedge. Or perhaps the Weapons/Attacks:
Hedge itself crafted them, pain and fear given form and 
fur, and charged them with keeping those who have lost Type Damage Dice Pool Special
the path from finding it and escaping. Claws 2L 10 Armor piercing 2

No matter the truth of their origin, briarwolves are Bite 3L 9 Armor piercing 2
among the Hedge’s most frightening hunters. 

Contracts: Cloak of Night, Wayward Guide 
Description: Briarwolves are part wolf, but have ee-

rily human features. Their hands end in wickedly clawed Dread Powers: Jump Scare, Natural Weapons 2, 

fingers. They stand on two legs, but can run just fine, and Prodigious Leap

just as fast, on all fours. Their eyes are human eyes, al- Deep Cave Monster
ways. Briarwolves smell of dirt and meat and old, dried 
blood, and their mouths are full of too many teeth. When [Ominous rumbling, like the earth shifting…or a stom-
they’re on the hunt, their howls cut to the bone. ach growling]

Storytelling Hints: Briarwolves are pack animals. Background: The Deep Caves are narrow tunnels 
When one catches a scent, they all gather to stalk their prey. lined with razor-sharp gems. Their caverns twist far into 
What they like best, the moment they wait for, is when the the ground, and the path changes around the traveler, 
prey starts running. The pack ramps up to that, surround- making it easy to get lost within. Perhaps they’ve always 
ing their quarry, baying from all across the Hedge, crashing been there; stories warning away those who come to the 
about in the Thorns, and stopping to sniff and slaver just Hedge seeking treasure have spread for years. The Lost 
outside where their victims have holed up. and the fae avoid them when they can, no matter how 

Hobgoblins 257



tempting the gems might be, because the caves are alive, Health: 16
and hungry. Those who venture inside rarely make it Frailties: None
back out. Contracts: None

Description: The Deep Caves have entrances all Dread Powers: Chameleon Horror, Immortal, Maze, 
across the Hedge. For the most part, they appear the way 

The Path Not Taken
an average cave does: openings in a rocky outcropping 
or mountainside, leading below ground. But bright gems System: Characters who venture into the Deep Caves 
with razor-sharp edges stud the walls, ceilings, and floors do so at their own peril. Refer to rules for navigating the 
of the cave. Once a changeling hears the rumor that the Hedge (p. 200) to explore the tunnels. The Storyteller de-
gems are teeth, it’s hard to see the cave entrance as any- termines how often players need to roll, whether it’s after 
thing other than a hungry maw. a certain amount of time has passed, each time the tun-

nels branch, or when the rumbling echoes start sounding 
Storytelling Hints: For changelings who know better like a growling stomach. Any dramatic failure fully alerts 

than to enter the Deep Caves, it might take extraordi- the Deep Caves to the intruders and their whereabouts, 
nary circumstances to convince them to venture inside. and a chase begins (p. 195).
However, word about the dangers hasn’t reached every 
freehold, and plenty of unwitting motleys have gone into The base number of successes required for charac-
the caves over the years in search of treasure and wonders. ters to escape (and for the Deep Caves to begin digesting 
Few are ever heard from again. them) is 8. Should the Deep Caves win the chase, charac-

ters within take one point of lethal damage for every turn 
Stories tell of the Deep Caves cutting a deal with the that they’re trapped. 

sun, the rain, and the wind, so when the heat beats down 
in the daytime the cool dark is inviting, and at night the What happens next is up to the Storyteller: Perhaps 
caves are a place to get out of the elements. On days when the Deep Caves are willing to strike a deal. Maybe there’s 
it downpours, the Deep Caves are warm and dry, and the a reliable trick to getting a sentient cave to spit someone 
gems reflect the light from any lanterns, candles, or flash- back out. Perhaps once her Health track is full of lethal 
lights the changelings shine on them. Down they lead, damage, the character passes out and awakens hours later, 
promising riches to anyone who returns with their pock- lost in the Hedge and feeling rather…digested, with her 
ets laden with jewels. Glamour pool depleted. 

What those changelings don’t realize is, the caves Liza Cantwell,  
only look inviting. Age 9, Goblin Queen

Then they try to eat you. 
“Kneel before the queen!” [dissolves into giggles]

Mental Attributes: Intelligence 2, Wits 4, Resolve 4
Background: Liza’s been in the Hedge about a year now, 

Physical Attributes: Strength 8, Dexterity 3, Stamina 6 left here by someone who took so many Goblin Contracts and 
Social Attributes: Presence 5, Manipulation 4, gathered so much Debt she became a Goblin Queen herself. 
Composure 2 To shed that Debt, she found a little girl to take her place. The 
Mental Skills: None woman tricked Liza into following her into the Hedge, then 
Physical Skills: Brawl (Crushing) 10, Stealth (Hiding in left her there to become the new Goblin Queen. Liza missed 
Plain Sight) 6 her parents at first, but when she gets sad, the pixies entertain 

her and make her laugh again. Sometimes they lead her on a 
Social Skills: Intimidation 8, Persuasion 3, Subterfuge 3 chase, and the Thorns cut her. It probably should hurt, but it 
Merits: Demolisher 3 doesn’t, really, and she doesn’t feel so sad afterwards. 
Wyrd: 6 Description: Liza is a nine-year-old little girl, wear-
Glamour/per Turn: 12/6 ing a finely made but very dirty dress. Changelings who 
Willpower: 6 have met Madam Thimblestitch might recognize her 

handiwork. She also wears a woven crown of flowers, held 
Virtue: Hungry in place by her tangled hair. Liza still carries her back-
Vice: Vain pack, which contains her last few school assignments, a 
Aspiration: Do rocks salivate? This one sure seems to. library book, and a handout about stranger danger.
Initiative: 5 Storytelling Hints: For a kid who’s spent a year as Gob-
Defense: 3 lin Queen, being fawned over by her faerie retainers, Liza is 

a pretty even-keeled kid. She gives orders and expects them 
Size: 10 to be carried out, but she doesn’t fly into rages or demand 
Speed: 0 impossible things of her subjects. She can come across as a 

little cold, but she’s lost a lot of herself to the Thorns. 

258 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 2, Resolve 2
Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2
Social Attributes: Presence 5, Manipulation 2, 
Composure 1
Mental Skills: Crafts 1, Investigation 2
Physical Skills: Athletics 2, Larceny 1, Stealth 2, 
Survival 2, Weaponry 2
Social Skills: Animal Ken 1, Expression 2, Persuasion 2, 
Streetwise (Hedge) 3, Subterfuge 3
Merits: Enchanting Performance 2, Interdisciplinary 
Specialty (Hedge), Library 2, Staff 1
Wyrd: 2
Glamour/per Turn: 7/2
Willpower: 3
Virtue: Playful
Vice: Imperious
Aspiration: To rule all of Faerie
Initiative: 5
Defense: 5
Size: 4
Speed: 8
Health: 6
Frailties: Falling raindrops (bane)
Weapons/Attacks:

Type Damage Dice Pool
Goblin Queen’s Scepter 1L 4

Contracts: Glimpse of a Distant Mirror, Murkblur
Dread Powers: Beastmaster, Much Depends on 
Dinner, Snare

Madam Thimblestitch
“Oh, let’s get you patched up.”
Background: Gossips at the Goblin Markets say 

Madam Thimblestitch was once a seamstress for one of 
the Gentry. So long ago even she forgets when it was, she 
displeased her Lady, who turned her out to live in the 
Hedge. Whatever her offense was is long forgotten, even 
by Madam Thimblestitch herself. Now she wanders about, 
collecting scraps from the Thorns and sewing them into 
little monstrosities.

Description: Madam Thimblestitch is old and 
white haired, with pointed ears and needle-sharp teeth. 
Her hands are nimble, her fingers calloused. She wears 
fine clothing, fit for a lady’s court, and every piece of 
it her own work. A handful of little ragdolls often fol-
low her around, all of them made from the scraps of 
souls she plucks from the Thorns as she walks about 
the Hedge. 

Hobgoblins 259



Storytelling Hints: The seamstress is pleasant to can, hoping to trade up and up and up until he finds the 
talk to, and is quick with an invitation to tea. She is happy person who holds the faerie deed to his faerie house, and 
to impart information, especially when it comes to trad- swap them their heart’s desire for his own. 
ing court gossip. She is always sewing, though some of the Description: Mosspocket appears as a young man, 
scraps of Icons she works with are hard for changelings to with owl-like features that actually include feathers on his 
witness her stitching together. Madam Thimblestitch is face. His coat rustles with all the parchments tucked into 
unable to resist commenting on the quality of her com- its pockets and his satchel clinks with jars of ink and pens.
panions’ clothing. She’ll tsk over imperfections and offer Storytelling Hints: Mosspocket is very polite, and 
to fix them up. tries to be helpful. He’ll chat with the motley to see what 
Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 4, Resolve 4 they need, and always, always has something in his many 
Physical Attributes: Strength 1, Dexterity 6, Stamina 2 pockets he’s willing to trade.
Social Attributes: Presence 2, Manipulation 5, Mental Attributes: Intelligence 4, Wits 3, Resolve 2
Composure 4 Physical Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2
Mental Skills: Academics 2, Crafts (Sewing) 5, Politics Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 4, 
(Courts) 6, Streetwise (Hedge) 5 Composure 4
Physical Skills: Survival 2 Mental Skills: Academics 3, Investigation 2, Politics 1
Social Skills: Empathy 3, Socialize (Conversation) 6, Physical Skills: Athletics 2, Larceny 2, Stealth 2, 
Subterfuge 3 Weaponry 1
Merits: Allies 4, Etiquette 2, Inspiring, Sympathetic Social Skills: Empathy (Desires) 3, Persuasion (Deals) 
Wyrd: 5 4, Socialize 3, Subterfuge (Misdirection) 2
Glamour/per Turn: 10/5 Merits: Eidetic Memory, Fast Talking 3, Fixer, Pusher
Willpower: 8 Wyrd: 4
Aspiration: To clothe the finest lords and ladies Glamour/per Turn: 9/4
Initiative: 10 Willpower: 6
Defense: 4 Virtue: Comfortable
Size: 5 Vice: Petty
Speed: 9 Aspiration: To restore his estate to its former cozy glory
Health: 7 Initiative: 6
Frailties: Must collect any Icon, token, or other such Defense: 4
scrap she sees (taboo); must comment on companions’ Size: 4
clothing and offer to repair any flaws she sees (taboo) Speed: 8
Contracts: Blessing of Perfection, Walls Have Ears Health: 6
Dread Powers:  Hypnotic Gaze, Influence 2 Frailties: None
(Ragdolls), Pied Piper

Contracts: Know the Competition, Sight of Truth and Lies
Mosspocket Dread Powers: Bottle Glamour, Lethe’s Embrace, 

“You sound like someone in need of some better luck.” Miracle, Reality Stutter
Background: Mosspocket once owned a fine house Weapons/Attacks:

in the Hedge. It had secret rooms and reading nooks, and Type Damage Dice Pool
a little squirrel-faced woman who brought him tea every 
afternoon. A canny group of changelings tricked him out Thornknife 0L 4
of the house and the secret rooms and the reading nooks, Trod Trolls
and even the little squirrel-faced woman, and Mosspocket 
was forced to leave with nothing but his satchel full of “Where do you think you’re going, kid?”
parchment and ink. Background: Like their cousins of legend, the 

The changelings are long dead, and even though bridge trolls, trod trolls demand tribute, favors, or tasks 
Mosspocket’s house now stands empty and encroach- from those who wish to pass. Many of them make their 
ing brambles threaten its lawns, he can’t go back: The homes in Hollows close to a trod, where they can hear the 
changelings held the deed, and he doesn’t know who they footsteps or hoofbeats and carriage wheels of approach-
passed it on to. Instead, he makes deals with anyone he ing travelers. The trolls move out to block the road, and 

260 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



refuse to let the travelers continue on their journey until Initiative: 6
they’ve paid their way. This tribute can take many forms: Defense: 3
a sack of goblin fruit, favors owed, or anything else the Size: 7
troll might need, or senses the changelings value. 

Speed: 13
Some changelings refuse to pay the tribute and in-

stead attempt to leave the path, skirting into the Thorns Health: 12
to avoid the troll and his reach. Doing so is risky: Leav- Frailties: Must attempt to solve a riddle asked of it 
ing the path for any reason often leads to disaster, land- (taboo); sunshine from the mortal world (bane; if a trod 
ing the changeling somewhere dangerous and unfamiliar. troll dies from its bane, it turns to stone)
The trolls know this, too, and choose spots to block where Weapons/Attacks:
abandoning the road is especially ill-advised.

Type Damage Dice Pool
Description: Trod trolls are huge. No, bigger than 

that. They’re large enough to plunk themselves down in Fists 2B 11
the middle of a trod and leave no room for a traveler to Thrown boulders 2L 10
squeeze by on either side and still remain on the path. Contracts: Might of the Terrible Brute, Paralyzing 
Often, they change their skin to resemble the road itself, Presence, Seven-League Leap
so they blend in from a distance. They might be the pale 
gray of cobblestones, the dusty beige of a dry dirt road, or Dread Powers: Home Ground (Trods), Regenerate 1, 
the deep, dark brown of a muddy road after a rainstorm. Surprise Entrance (p. 266), Unbreakable

Storytelling Hints: Trod trolls tend to be surly and Wandering Nightmare
a bit smug. They aren’t very smart, but they don’t have 

[Everything gets dark and terribly, terribly quiet.] 
to be: They’re big and heavy and they’re not kidding 
when they threaten to pitch you into the Thorns if you Background: Once upon a time, a changeling 
defy them. Sometimes, they’ll set up shop near a Goblin plagued by the dreams of his time in Arcadia made a bar-
Market. This way, they encounter travelers who are more gain with a denizen of the Hedge. The hobgoblin took the 
likely to retrace their steps and buy what the trolls want dreams from the changeling, sealed them up in a green 
from the Market, rather than returning home and finding glass bottle, and set off back to his Hollow. But along the 
another trod. way, the hobgoblin tripped and the glass bottle broke, set-

ting the nightmare free. 
Trod trolls are generally solitary creatures, content 

with limiting their socializing to the people they meet on It discovered it quite liked being an entity all its own, 
the road. However, sometimes they work in pairs, the sec- and set out in search of others like it. Turns out, there 
ond one hiding until his partner has engaged the passers- were no others like it, so the Wandering Nightmare did 
by, then sneaking onto the road behind them and blocking the next best thing: It sought out dreamers, and pulled 
their escape route so the changelings are forced to pay up their dreams into its own. Only sometimes, gathering 
immediately. dreams means absorbing the dreamer as well. 

Mental Attributes: Intelligence 1, Wits 1, Resolve 3 Description: The Wandering Nightmare is a roiling, 
roaming cloud of fear. It sticks low to the ground, rolling 

Physical Attributes: Strength 7, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5
in like a thick fog. It tinges the landscape as it moves, 

Social Attributes: Presence 2, Manipulation 2, leeching the color out of its surroundings. At night, it’s 
Composure 3 even harder to spot, creeping up on those who’ve made 
Mental Skills: Investigation 2, Occult (Trods) 1 camp and staying out of their firelight as long as possible. 
Physical Skills: Athletics (Throwing) 3, Brawl 4, Stealth 3, Sounds are muffled within it, and the world outside the 
Survival 3 Nightmare appears to move much more slowly than it 
Social Skills: Intimidation (Looming) 5, Persuasion 2, does inside.
Subterfuge 2 Storytelling Hints: The Wandering Nightmare con-
Merits: Iron Stamina 3 sists mainly of feelings and instincts. When changelings 

are caught up in it, a deep sense of dread settles in, as 
Wyrd: 4 though something is about to go spectacularly wrong. Of-
Glamour/per Turn: 9/4 ten, this is true, as the nightmare takes hold and dredges 
Willpower: 6 up the Lost’s fears. The Wandering Nightmare doesn’t 
Virtue: Greedy only present its current victims’ dreams, but also cycles 

through fragments of other nightmares it has absorbed, 
Vice: Unintelligent including flashes of the dreams that originally called it 
Aspiration: To amass a fortune into being. 

Hobgoblins 261



Mental Attributes: Intelligence 3, Wits 4, Resolve 3, Contracts: Overpowering Dread, Tumult
Physical Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3 Dread Powers: Chameleon Horror, Conjure Dreams, 
Social Attributes: Presence 3, Manipulation 4, Know Soul, Mist Form
Composure 3
Mental Skills: Occult 3 The Wild Hunters
Physical Skills: Stealth (Darkness) 5, Survival 3 When the True Fae retreat from the corners of Arca-
Social Skills: Empathy 3, Expression 3, Intimidation dia to hold court and play their games, the land returns 
(Dread) 8 to what it once was. Sometimes escaping changelings 

stumble across these empty realms before they cross into 
Merits: None the Hedge, these undeveloped lands devoid of living civi-
Wyrd: 4 lization, a theatre stage with scattered props and sets but 
Glamour/per Turn: 9/4 no lights or actors. Most often, changelings view them as 
Willpower: 6 cold woods, chilled enough to see their breath illumined 

in moon- and starlight, a midnight land rife with barrow 
Virtue: Dreadful mounds and watchful eyes. These eyes are both hunter 
Vice: Silent and hunted, air and darkness assuming thought and form 
Aspiration: To absorb nightmares into itself by will or whim. They are the Huntsmen: They were in 
Initiative: 6 Arcadia before the Gentry, and they will be there after 

the Gentry leave.
Defense: 3

But in this time and place, the Gentry rule the lands 
Size: 6 beyond the Hedge, and even those verderers of the woods 
Speed: 13 must acknowledge their authority. When the Lost stub-
Health: 9 bornly refuse to be found, the True Fae venture into the 
Frailties: An act of true courage (bane) deepest thickets to call upon the Huntsmen, who are nev-

er far from their masters.

262 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Never Far  The Wild Hunt
from the Queen A Huntsman never ceases. They can die, after a 

Everything has rules. Rules and reliability. The fashion — they’re canny and tough, but they’re creatures 
crossbow and its quiver of 20 darling daughters are reli- of flesh and Wyrd like anything else touched by Faer-
able. They do what you expect of them. You’re reliable. ie. When you prick them, they bleed rather a lot. They 
Your snares will catch, your sword will draw blood. The meet attempts to wrong them without revenge, however, 
woods are treacherous. Without rules and order, the for their heart’s desire is to see a changeling in fetters, 
woods will consume you. The woods define you, and they dragged through the Hedge and brought back to Arca-
are all you need. dia’s Plutonian shore. Even slaying the Huntsman will 

not end her suffering, for only a chill cavity rests between 
The Gentry make their own rules, however. They their ribs, and so long as their heart beats in their stolen 

come into the woods, magic billowing before them, fog Bastion, they reform somewhere in the Hedge within a 
parting in the forest. When they come upon you, they month’s time to start again. And even when the heart 
make a swift motion with the surety of sovereignty, re- itself is destroyed and the Huntsman is no more, the 
moving your heart and sundering grace. Into that cav- animating Title’s fire flits back to the Keeper whence it 
ity pours the desire of the True Fae, a Title representing came, and can be sewn into a new Huntsman to start the 
their desire for the Lost who has forsaken them, and you cycle anew. 
become their Huntsman. Whatever desires you had be-
fore are muted — you now share the same desire for a In the colloquial among the Lost, the phrase “Wild 
changeling as the Keeper, and you wear the livery of your Hunt” represents this dread reality: The hunt against 
queen. Your quarry doesn’t believe in rules. Your quarry them never ends, a furious host will chase them to the 
isn’t reliable, except in one key respect: ends of the Earth, and a Huntsman may be coming for 

them at any time. Huntsmen will pay off privateers, com-
Changelings run. They always run. And so, the mand goblins, and even treat with mortal forces to harass 

Huntsman follows. their prey. 
The Herald The Panoply

Often, the herald comes as the first sign of the hunt. Their sword, their powder horn, their boots: That’s 
The bird of prey alights on a changeling’s windowsill, what matters. A Huntsman’s identity is partly subli-
looks her in the eye, and then she hears the voice. Come mated into their tools — any other feeling was largely 
home, he says, and she knows the Huntsman has her scent lost with their heart. “The One-Eyed Highwayman,” 
and draws nigh. Follow me and spare yourself the chase. the freehold calls them, and their eyepatch and tricorn 
Your lover pines for you, your master fades without your song, are more central to their self than whatever other name 
there are contracts to sign and slaves to eat; the kingdom dies they might once have used. Most Huntsmen have at 
without your smile. Sometimes the Huntsman’s herald is least two tools to their name: some item of attire, and 
their pet briarhound or hookshrike, in which case their a weapon.
love for their companion is the only thing that persists 
past the loss of their heart. Only their fury can match it, This is how you know them: by their tools, often ar-
so woe to the changeling who injures the herald. chaic, always perfectly maintained, never useless. Every-

thing else changes from moment to moment — height, 
By the time the herald comes, the Huntsman has gender, clothing, personality aside from the demeanor 

been observing their prey for weeks, perhaps months. of the hunter coolly stalking his prey — but the imple-
Goblin contacts willing to inform on the changeling have ments, the tools, the panoply stays the same. The Mask 
been paid for their silence, either with Glamour or cold that obscures a changeling’s true nature also shields a 
iron. The verderers have walked beside her on the street, Huntsman’s panoply from seeming out of the ordinary. 
watched her sup Glamour from emotions, eaten the same A musket seems like a perfectly mundane item to carry, 
spicy pork from the same local Burmese place that she though someone walking down the street open carrying 
has. The herald is an announcement of the hunt, but it isn’t necessarily abnormal these days anyway.
also flushes the prey out from her complacent routine. It 
reminds her that she is not safe, and she never will be, and The End of the Chase
only the rarest and strangest changelings resist the panic 
that follows so stark a reminder. One who does, and who Inevitably, the chase ends.
clings stubbornly to defenses and a routine, finds the at- The Huntsman drags their quarry through the 
tempts to flush her out never cease. The heart that beats Hedge toward Arcadia. Clad in iron or a Huntsman’s 
inside the Huntsman is that of her — their — Keeper, snare, a changeling cannot escape as she normally does, 
and they know how to hurt her in manners most intimate. and the Huntsman can track her more easily within the 

The Wild Hunters 263



Only in the Hedge can a changeling sway the 
Huntsman from their mission, if temporarily. The 

A Huntsman  Huntsman’s natural inclination for order clashes with 
for All Seasons the obsessive excitement of the changeling’s proximity 

to Arcadia and the fulfillment of the Keeper’s heart 
Huntsmen interact with Court Bargains in that beats within. The Lost can see, and feel, this ten-
ways as unique as they are troubling. The sion — it crackles like fatigue, electricity behind their 
verderers of Arcadia cannot circumvent a eyes, from a dark cloud above the Hedge’s canopy. If 
Bargain, but they’re frighteningly good at the changeling can convince or trick the Huntsman 
negotiating loopholes. into letting her find the Bastion where their heart 
When a Spring monarch rules, a Hunts- waits, escape becomes possible. Within the Bastion, a 
man can smash and whip and do violence changeling may swear an oath (p. 212) with the Hunts-
to the Lost all they like — so long as that man, heart to heart, if they’re willing; but the change-
afflicted Lost is the one they’re seeking. It’s ling must overcome the Fae’s desires that spill out from 
a desire that, literally, sits right where their within in a battle of wits or will. As a Wyrd-witnessed 
heart should be. declaration of true feeling, the oath allows the Hunts-
They cannot circumvent Summer’s Bar- man to express their own desires once more, asserting 
gain, but Huntsmen are stealthy predators their own needs and wants over the Keeper’s and wrest-
who know the capabilities of their prey. The ing back control of their fate for a short while — for 
wise, keen Huntsman builds traps for their the scene, no longer. Once that time is over, the Fae’s 
foes, not the other way around. desires return to the fore, but the oath remains.

Finally returned, the Huntsman’s heart can ex-
Recognizing the Huntsman as a pawn of 
the Others by the Bargain of Autumn punge the Keeper’s Title, though even then the oath 
depends on the strength of the local court’s is still intact — presuming the heart can found within 
king or queen. Given that a Huntsman’s the tempestuous mortal Bastion. What a motley will 
standard means of flushing out their prey do with the purest, powerless representation of their 
involves a warning from their herald, the tormentor is anyone’s guess. Letting the verderer live is 
season’s demand rarely goes unsatisfied. dangerous, of course, because an oath broken hurts the 

changeling just as much as it does the Huntsman, and 
Avoiding the chill fury of Winter is dif- an oath is forever. The sworn are irreversibly connect-
ficult, for without their heart, a Huntsman’s ed, for good or for ill. But killing them alerts the True 
emotions are greatly muted, and they 
cannot truly mourn. However, the focus of Fae as surely as a road f lare, and paves the way for a 
a Huntsman is to capture their target and new, unknown adversary to take the Huntsman’s place.
return them to Arcadia, not to kill. The ver-
derer avoids the Bargain by using nonlethal Calling the Hunt
methods. Create Huntsmen as hobgoblins (p. 252), with excep-

tions as follows:

Concept
Hedge anyway. The verderers do not hesitate to resort A Huntsman has no story of their own, unless a 
to violence and cold iron, but they sometimes seem changeling returns their heart or happens to find one 
more sympathetic than they do outside the Hedge, be- wandering free in their native Arcadian fringes. The 
cause they are near their hearts. concept for a Huntsman on the move is a combina-

This is their secret: to anchor them and allow them tion of the Fae Title they carry (p. 267), their panoply, 
to manifest fully in the mortal world as creatures of Wyrd and one core Aspiration that defines them. Everything 
and flesh, the True Fae must hide the heart of a Hunts- else is mutable. A Huntsman’s panoply consists of two 
man within a Bastion. For months, even years, alien emo- pieces of signature equipment, one of which is almost 
tions plague some mortal’s sleep, thoughts of hunting in always a weapon, plus one for every three dots of Wyrd 
some dark and deep wood. A Huntsman can borrow some they possess. Some Huntsmen also have a favored her-
of the Gentry’s talent for oneiromancy and Hedge shap- ald companion.
ing, but they are forever blind to the Bastion that holds The Huntsmen’s own Aspirations range from per-
their heart — the one thing they cannot track down even sonal desires, such as “Regain my heart” or “Impose 
with all their cunning, no matter how earnest their hid- order,” to strange yearnings that hearken back to their 
den longing. time in the forests of old Arcadia, such as “Hunt a 

264 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



creature that cannot die” or “Ensnare the moon.” This Huntsman  
Aspiration is only available when the Huntsman is in 
the Hedge. They also have two other Aspirations that Dread Powers
are always available, which they inherit from the Fae Below is a list of common Dread Powers that Hunts-
Title that fills them; one of these is always the Fae’s men wield.
craving (p. 269).

Anchors AMONG THE SHEEP
Huntsmen have Virtues and Vices like hobgoblins. 

However, while carrying a Fae Title, a Huntsman’s Vir- Thanks to the Fae taking up residence inside its soul, 
tue is an expression of their Keeper, while their Vice a Huntsman may take any roughly humanoid form, in-
is an expression of their own suborned desires. If they cluding that of any kind of human being, for 2 Glamour, 
regain their heart and expunge the Title, these reverse; although they cannot impersonate specific humans. Their 
even a Huntsman remains touched by their Keeper af- Size is always between 4 and 6. However, every Huntsman 
ter the fact. has the same tell (p. 269) as the Gentry Title they carry, 

though it manifests more subtly; and although the Mask 
Dread Powers and Oaths protects their panoply from looking out of place in the 

Unlike hobgoblins, Huntsmen cannot learn fae Con- real world, a Huntsman’s panoply never changes.
tracts. They can learn any of the Dread Powers that ap-
pear in the Chronicles of Darkness Rulebook starting 
on p. 144, as well as a few unique ones of their own, below. APEX PREDATOR
All Huntsmen begin with the following Dread Powers for 
free: Among the Sheep, Command the Herald, Heart of The Huntsman has mastery over lesser predators. By 
Iron, and Hunter’s Panoply. spending 1 Glamour, it can conjure up a swarm of small 

Huntsmen also cannot make goblin deals. However, animals or birds as appropriate to its nature. These ani-
they can swear fae oaths, as long as a changeling or one of mals will obey its commands, and it can communicate 
the Gentry initiates them. with them clearly. It can also use this power on a single, 

larger animal.
Advantages

Huntsmen do not suffer the frailties of other fae crea-
tures, which is one reason the Gentry risk sending their COMMAND THE HERALD
Titles into the world this way. A Huntsman can stay in 
the mortal world as long as they like and suffer no ill ef- All knights require a herald, and the Huntsmen are 
fects. Huntsmen can reap Glamour (p. 103) from mortals the knights of the Gentry. The Huntsman has a specific 
but can’t harvest it. They can also consume goblin fruits form of remote viewing it can practice: command of a 
and other such sources to regain Glamour. While carry- small, specific creature that it has touched. The choice 
ing a Title, they can perform oneiromancy inside Bastions of herald is appropriate to the Huntsman’s nature — in-
but only with subtle shifts (p. 218), and they can shape the evitably, predators such as cats or raptors of some sort, 
Hedge as well as any changeling. hunting hounds, etc. Using this ability requires 1 Glam-

Use the Huntsman’s Resolve + Wyrd for a Clash of our per hour. The creature remains aware of its surround-
Wills (p. 126) if their powers come into conflict with oth- ings while surveilling, and can speak with the Huntsman’s 
er supernatural abilities. A Huntsman gains a dice bonus voice. It’s unfailingly loyal, and nothing can persuade it to 
equal to half its Fae master’s Wyrd, rounded up, to contest betray its master under any circumstances.
attempts to force or convince them to act against the Fae’s A Huntsman’s herald could be any kind of animal 
wishes. When a changeling drops her Mask, a Huntsman or bestial fae creature; goblin beasts conscripted this way 
adds the changeling’s Wyrd as bonus dice to track her; can survive without ill effects outside the Hedge until this 
see p. 83. In the Hedge and Arcadia, they always gain power ends.
this bonus.

Huntsmen have an easier time of navigating the 
Hedge than even the True Fae do, reducing the total HEART OF IRON
needed successes to win any navigation contest there by 
one, or two among the Thorns (p. 202). Despite their doubly-fae nature, or perhaps because 

of it, Huntsmen have no fear of cold iron. They often use 
it in their tools.

The Wild Hunters 265



HUNGRY HEART KINDRED SPIRITS
The wild, ravenous essence of the Keeper can’t truly fill In some ways, a Huntsman is as much the victim of 

the void at a Huntsman’s core; without their heart, they con- a durance as any changeling ever was, though some serve 
stantly feel that something is missing, and they rely on their willingly. They have uncanny insight into the minds 
trusty tools to help reclaim it. By spending 1 Willpower when and hearts of changelings, knowing where to find the 
they attack a changeling or True Fae with a panoply weapon, cracks in the Lost’s hearts that let Faerie seep back in. By 
they may steal Glamour from the victim’s pool equal to suc- spending 1 Glamour, the Huntsman automatically learns 
cesses rolled if the attack hits, adding it to their own up to a changeling’s Needle, Thread, Aspirations, and current 
their usual maximum. This power doesn’t work on hobgob- and maximum Clarity. By spending an additional Glam-
lins or anything else born from the Hedge. our, they learn the circumstances of and Condition (if 

any) associated with the character’s most recent Clarity 
damage, or the identity and face of the changeling’s clos-

HUNTER’S PANOPLY est Touchstone. Subsequent Glamour points can reveal 
older Clarity wounds and additional Touchstones. If the 

All Huntsmen keep their panoply in the finest con- Huntsman uses their knowledge against the victim, they 
dition, despite their tools and weapons consisting of the earn an exceptional success on a roll of three successes 
same pure Wyrd that makes up their bodies. On all rel- or more.
evant actions involving their tools, be it attacking or set-
ting traps, a Huntsman’s rolls gain the 8-again quality. 
They can call dropped or lost tools back to hand as an SURPRISE ENTRANCE
instant action by spending a Glamour, but actions they 
take that would use a tool they’re currently missing lose No matter how secure their victim thinks she is, by 
the 10-again quality. A Huntsman regains a Willpower spending 1 Glamour the Huntsman may suddenly appear 
whenever they achieve an exceptional success on a roll in the scene, whether they lunge from the crowd, burst 
using their signature panoply. through the wall, or emerge from the woods following the 

sharp report of a musket. Any character witnessing this 
entrance must succeed on a reflexive Resolve + Com-

HUNTER’S SENSES posure roll or gain the Shaken Condition. If the char-
acters have actively taken appropriate measures to keep 

The Huntsman has incredibly honed senses for the Huntsman out (barring and locking the door, setting 
changelings. Against the Lost, they gain a +4 bonus to traps in the woods, etc.), it takes the verderer one full turn 
all perception rolls, and apply 9-again to the dice pool. to break through, giving the characters time to react. If 
This increases to 8-again within the Hedge or Arcadia. If not, they’re just there as a reflexive action and can take 
the changeling enters into a pledge (p. 214) with a human, one more action before anyone can react. If the characters 
the Huntsman must win a Clash of Wills with her to use are in a Hollow one of them owns, the owner may make a 
this benefit. Clash of Wills against this power.

INESCAPABLE SNARE WATCHFUL GAZE
The Huntsman creates a snare that entraps victims. The canny Huntsman knows that total stealth is 

It can take any form, depending on the shape the ver- less effective than letting their prey know they’re on the 
derer assumes and the nature of the Fae Title it carries — trail, but not when they’ll strike. The Huntsman spends a 
sticky webs, paralyzing arcs of lightning, a chilling shout, Glamour and makes eye contact with a changeling, rolling 
or just a good old-fashioned net. By spending 1 Glamour, Presence + Resolve contested by the victim’s Composure. 
the Huntsman denotes an area of up to 10 square yards/ If successful, the victim gains the Paranoid Condition. 
meters, and can attempt to grapple any victims in the area The changeling doesn’t need to know the one making her 
using the snare, using its own Attributes and Skills with feel watched is a Huntsman for the power to work, and 
a +3 bonus to the dice pool. The bonus increases to +5 if may chalk the feeling up to any number of circumstances. 
it uses one of its panoply tools as the snare. A Huntsman’s A Huntsman may use this power through their herald’s 
snare counts as iron for purposes of negating the effects of gaze as well.
fae magic, such as portaling and Contracts.

266 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



The True Fae Keeper could reach out to its rival who keeps no human 
prisoners for a hint to its weakness, though she may de-

Half a hundred aliases describe them: Gentry, Good cide the price isn’t worth paying after all.
Cousins, Kindly Ones, Fair Folk, and more. These are A True Fae is not a person, but a Name wrapped in 
lies frightened women and men tell, hoping to appease a tapestry of vows and deals. Deep in the mists of forgot-
the vanity of capricious gods. Such false names obscure ten time, the Fae bargained with Arcadia itself, declaring 
true ones that no one dares speak, lest careless and im- that they would exist — that they would own the land 
pertinent utterance draw Their attention from across the entire and claim it as a vessel for their Wyrd, dreams, and 
Thorns. The Lost use the word “fae” to describe anything facets, in exchange for a web of arcane rules so complex 
that comes from the Hedge or beyond it — hobgoblins, no one of them could ever know them all. At their core, 
tokens, even themselves. But the True Fae are those no- the Fae are ravenous beings that must possess. They want, 
ble, mercurial, unknowable beings that stride, larger than and in their all-consuming wanting they strike bargains 
life, across Arcadia and rule its lands with the divine right to sate their desires, whether for slaves, kingdoms, secrets, 
of conquerors. or spoils. Changelings who live and labor among them 

Most changelings see “Keeper” as synonymous with usually see only the tip of the Gentry iceberg, but those 
“Gentry,” but in truth, Faerie is home to countless Oth- brave and foolish enough to delve more fully into Faerie’s 
ers who have no interest in humanity. They wage glori- mysteries catch a glimpse of the truth: A True Fae’s Name 
ous wars over heart-bound trophies, pitting goblin hordes is its heart and its undoing, and all the vast kingdoms 
against one another until blood stains the sky. They plumb and beauteous treasures with which it surrounds itself are 
the ragged edges and dusty corners of their realm, seeking made of promises. And promises can be broken.
new voids to fill with their boundless selves. Fae explorers 
prowling the cold, empty wasteland beyond the borders of Names and Titles
their Arcadia were the first to discover the Huntsmen in 
their barrows there, but grew bored with these new play- A True Fae’s Name is its core, and rarely manifests in a 
things until their brethren found a way to put them to comprehensible way unless its Titles have all been stripped 
better use. A changeling desperate enough to escape her away or lost. A Title is one of many roles a single Fae agrees 

to play, one face of many that it wears, granting it limited 

The True Fae 267



omnipotence within the confines of that role. The Princess tangled webs of pacts and obligations are what empower 
of Red Crowns is able to nail her hats to the heads of her the Lost to oppose and evade them.
victims, to conjure up her great and terrible Crimson Keep, All the world-shaping power and casual immortality a 
because she holds that title. She possesses near-infinite pow- True Fae possesses comes from pacts it signed when it came 
er when it comes to nailing hats to people’s heads, dragging into being. The Contracts it wields are like a changeling’s 
off wicked children to her Keep, and so on, but unless she is writ large, inscribed into not only itself but its domain, too 
also the Tlatoani of Crashing Serpents, she has no especial — even the crystal gardens that sing enchanting songs and 
control over dragons or violent thunderstorms. No matter the treacherous bogs that devour trespassers are Contracts. 
what form a Title takes, its nature always bleeds through: The signature that seals the deal is the oath a Fae swears, 
Every manifestation of the Princess, on Earth or in Arcadia, and the terms of this oath are complex secrets woven into its 
features elements of torture, blood, and nails, for example, realm and the role it plays among the other Gentry. Pacts it 
whether she appears as a blood-drenched madwoman with a swears upon its Name are existentially binding, and bestow 
hammer or a children’s rhyme about the perils of going out the grandest and most fundamental parts of a Fae’s nature 
of doors while hatless. that persist across all of its Titles. Breaking these pacts con-

The True Fae are the lords and ladies in their palaces demns it to true destruction. Lesser pacts it swears upon a 
of crystal and moonlight, but they are also the palace and Title bestow smaller-scale powers only that Title can use; 
the masked servants and the forest in which the castle breaking these pacts won’t kill a Fae, but it might destroy the 
sits. What the courts call the “Keeper” is just one Title’s Title or render one of its powers useless.
manifestation, and even if a changeling kills it, the oaths A True Fae makes deals with entire Regalia, gaining 
it made would simply cast a new piece of itself in that role nigh-limitless power over their themes within the bounds 
eventually and pick up the Wild Hunt where it left off. of the Title that uses them. In exchange, it must keep a 
Only breaking the deals that created a Title in the first physical representation of each Regalia it masters, though 
place can permanently unravel it, although another Fae not always a literal one. A Sword could very well be a 
may devour it and claim it for itself. weapon, but it might also be a hunting hawk, a thunder-

A given Title might become a Keeper for any number storm, or a bulldozer. It could even be a jagged cliff that 
of reasons, and might not be one forever. A changeling’s juts out into the sea — anything that expresses force and 
captor might abandon her for 10 years not to inflict the forthrightness within the purview of the Title that com-
torture of loneliness but just because its Keeper Title got mands it. Some changelings think the Fae have access to 
distracted with something else for a while and forgot it more than six Regalia, deriving ever more esoteric powers 
was a Keeper. Some Fae take people for the exquisite fla- from treasures rare and peculiar.
vor of their emotions, or the prizes they can extract from An Arcadian realm is like a theatre: The scenery and 
human dreams. With their ability to weave dream sym- costumes and faces change, but the framework remains 
bols into real objects, they pluck the most valuable jewels apparent, if an actor just changes her perspective. Any-
of dreamstuff from the minds of slumbering mortals and one wishing to oppose one of the Fair Folk can do so on 
steal them away to adorn their crowns. A beloved memo- its terms, dueling with pistols or plotting with its goblin 
ry, a childhood fear, or even the certainty itself that one courtiers, and in many cases that’s the only apparent way 
is only dreaming and can wake at any time — a True Fae to do it. But these are uphill battles, fought with great 
may covet these, and only the dreams of humanity can sacrifice to little permanent effect. A changeling who 
provide. Other Gentry might love humans for their ability learns the true nature of Titles and their oaths can quest 
to present a spirited challenge or entertain them, or might and scheme to discover the terms or physical key to such 
simply prefer human servants to goblin ones for the smell. an oath. Clever manipulation of the Title’s manifestation, 
One Fae might plot to take more human prisoners than destroying the Regalia outright, or appropriating it and 
another, for no reason other than to compete. Some Titles overriding the oath by swearing a more powerful one on 
may even need to capture humans as a term of their deals someone else’s true name can force the Fae to break its 
to exist, which means a changeling might escape by find- pact and take power away from it.
ing loopholes in those deals. The Fae war among themselves for countless inscruta-
Sign on the  ble reasons, constantly enmeshed in rivalries, enmities, and 

Dotted Line shifting alliances. One impetus lies in the Gentry’s ability 
to consume each other’s Titles and add them to their own 

The Others have built a kingdom that conforms to complement of roles. If a True Fae loses all its Titles and its 
their every whim, but without their age-old pledges they Name is obliterated, it ceases to be; but if even one of its 
would be nothing. More importantly, they can’t take pow- Titles persists as part of another Fae, it could reconstitute 
er away from rebellious changelings without taking power itself someday, regaining a Name through some convoluted 
away from themselves — an inconceivable notion. Their set of pledge clauses and happy accidents.

268 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



True Fae Traits Title is. A Fae with zero Titles is like a cornered 
rat, consisting only of a Name, and is desperate 

A True Fae never appears in a game as anything but to make deals and pick off weak Titles from other 
the manifestation of one of its Titles, or its Name if it Gentry to survive. A Fae with five Titles is a god 
has no Titles left. Characters can’t interact with the full even among faeries, with power over every Regalia 
breadth of one of the Fair Ones any other way. A manifes- and a massive Arcadian domain.
tation could be a character, or it could be a sky citadel, or 
an enormous clockwork machine, or a flock of platinum 	 Gentry have many kinds of Names, from a simple 
birds. Regardless of its form, a Title has most of the same “Ayesha” or “John” to the sound of waves break-
traits that a changeling does, although all of its Attributes ing against an ice shelf, or a picture of the wadjet: 
and Skills may not be applicable in certain forms. The the Egyptian symbol of magic. Strange sounds and 
Storyteller doesn’t need to create traits for every Title that images don’t especially protect True Fae’s Names. 
belongs to a True Fae; only ones the characters will mean- Once heard (or otherwise experienced), a substi-
ingfully interact with. tute is as good as the Name itself, provided the 

speaker witnessed the faerie’s real Name and uses 
Each Title has its own set of traits. As a result, it can the substitute with an honest, true intent.

be difficult for changelings to know whether two Titles 
they interact with are part of the same creature. The mot- 	 Titles are abstract (and even enigmatic) concepts, 
ley might be able to bargain with a powerful goblin for a but they always refer to an emotion, sensual experi-
rare Gentry genealogy or somesuch, but the most reliable ence, or object. One may be the Prince of Weeping 
way to tell is to existentially threaten or get rid of one Rats, while another is the Acolyte of Screams on the 
Title and see which other Fae react. These kinds of broad Mountain. Every manifestation incorporates the Title 
scale dealings with the Others are rare, worth devoting in some distinct way. This shape or theme is called 
several stories or an entire chronicle to resolving. the Title’s tell. The Prince of Weeping Rats appears 

as a rat-headed crying man holding a scepter, or be-
Build a Fae antagonist with the rules for creating comes an endless, filthy high rise, whose human-look-

changeling characters (see Chapter 3), with the following ing tenants weep whenever the ruling rats eat their 
considerations and exceptions: food or steal unattended children.
•	 Character Concept and Titles: A True Fae Ti-

tle has three Aspirations just like changelings do. •	 Wyrd: Determine Wyrd before the rest of a True 
Whenever it fulfills an Aspiration, it gains a Will- Fae’s traits, as many traits derive from its Wyrd 
power point instead of a Beat, which goes away rating.
at the end of the scene if not spent, unless it was 	 Even the weakest of the Gentry is powerful com-
earned pursuing a craving or a changeling. pared to most changelings. Each of a True Fae’s 

	 Aspirations for the Gentry range everywhere from Titles has a Wyrd rating of 5, plus one dot for each 
the humanly impossible to the unthinkably cruel. If Title the Fae possesses (including this one), to a 
the Title is a Keeper, one of its Aspirations should maximum of 10.
reflect its desire to capture — or recapture — a 	 A True Fae begins any scene with a full Glamour 
changeling. One Aspiration should always reflect a pool in Arcadia, and otherwise recovers Glamour 
craving of some kind, something the Title wants to in the same ways that changelings do. All True Fae 
possess more than anything, such as “the love of a suffer from Glamour addiction outside Arcadia or 
human” or “one million loyal subjects”; this Aspira- the Hedge; if they fail to regain at least their Wyrd 
tion stays no matter how many times it’s fulfilled. rating in Glamour each day in the real world, they 
Highly abstract Aspirations like “become a star” suffer the Deprived Condition. If they fall to Glam-
are valid for the Gentry, but the Storyteller should our 0, they lose Willpower and then Health at a 
make sure a route to such an Aspiration exists and rate of one per day until they regain at least their 
has something to do with characters the Fae can Wyrd rating in Glamour.
interact with; for instance, to become a star, the 	 True Fae suffer from frailties just as changelings do. 
Title might first need to transform seven humans They also suffer the bane of iron, as detailed on  
into eternal blue fires and then consume them on p. 102.
Midsummer’s Eve. The star then becomes just an-
other manifestation of the Title. •	 Attributes and Skills: Rather than prioritizing 

	 A True Fae has between zero and five Titles. The categories, a Fae Title receives a number of dots 
Storyteller should decide up front how many total equal to five times its Wyrd to distribute across At-
Titles the Fae has, even if he’s only creating traits tributes, and the same number to distribute across 
for one of them; this determines how powerful each Skills. A Title has no Skill Specialties.

The True Fae 269



•	 Faerie Template: True Fae don’t have kiths, courts, 
or anchors. They don’t truly have seemings either, 
but each Title can use one seeming’s blessing and 
bears something of that seeming’s trappings regard-
less of the form it takes.

	 In Arcadia and the Hedge, a Title has free rein 
to treat reality as though it were shaping dreams  
(p. 217) or the Hedge (p. 204), performing any 
oneiromantic or Hedgespinning act that fits within 
the legend of its identity, and treating other char-
acters as though they were important eidolons. It 
automatically succeeds at these actions unless the 
target of its shaping magic spends a Willpower 
point for the chance to resist.

	 A Title also has access to every Contract in (Wyrd 
− 4) Regalia (see Chapter 3). One of these must 
match its associated seeming. In the real world, it 
can use its Regalia and can itself take any form, but 
can’t otherwise shape reality.

•	 Merits: Fae Titles can have any Merits available to 
changelings, where they make sense. A Fae’s Social 
Merits must specify whether they apply in Arcadia 
and the Hedge, or in the human world. A Title has 
Merit dots equal to twice its Wyrd rating.

•	 Advantages: Calculate these as changelings do, 
but True Fae don’t have Clarity.

•	 Mask and Mien: The Mask hides a True Fae in the 
real world, but imperfectly; the Title’s tell always 
shows through in some fashion.

Names and Pledges
Names have power. A Fae that knows someone’s true 

name can weave that name into a nightmare tailor made 
to drive them into its waiting arms. Anyone a True Fae 
successfully targets with a Contract while speaking or 
otherwise utilizing her true name gains the Persistent Ob-
session Condition pertaining to that Fae, with a context 
chosen by the target’s player.

A changeling who learns a Fae’s true Name can speak 
it aloud to empower herself when she acts against any of 
its Titles, achieving exceptional success with any success-
ful use of a Contract that targets that Fae.

The Gentry can make pledges just like changelings can 
(p. 209), but they must invest more than just Glamour. A 
True Fae can seal any statement, even those of changelings 
and other fae creatures, but to do so it must swear the seal-
ing upon something it considers one of its possessions. This 
could be a captive changeling, a hobgoblin servant, a dream 
trinket or token, a Huntsman who wears its livery — any-
thing that isn’t just a manifestation of one of its Titles is fair 
game, as long as the Fae considers it property. If the subject 

270 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



of the sealing follows through on her promise, the Fae must as detailed above. Changelings can purchase these rules 
give her the possession upon which it swore. from goblins in the know, deduce them from patterns they 

A True Fae’s Title or Name can swear a personal or observe after spending a long time with a Title, trick it into 
hostile oath to any fae creature, including a changeling, telling them through clever pledges, etc.
but to do so it must swear upon itself. If it breaks the oath, As an example, the Storm King of the Bloody Throne 
it doesn’t gain the Oathbreaker Condition. Instead, it per- wears an ersatz crown and rules its domain with an iron 
manently loses access to one of its Regalia and becomes fist. It has sworn an oath to do so forever. But the Contract 
vulnerable to lethal attacks during the scene in which it that binds it to its Name says that it is a usurper, and will 
broke its word. If a Title loses its last Regalia this way, rule only as long as the land has no true monarch. Only 
the other party may choose to kill the Title permanently; one who can remove its Sword from the stone in which it’s 
demand any three tasks or wishes from it and then allow it embedded can be the true monarch, so the Storm King 
to regain its last Regalia; or force it to inhabit the Regalia’s hides stone and Sword both deep in the belly of a dark for-
physical key, allowing the other party to wield it as a to- est, guarded by goblin beasts. When a changeling braves 
ken. Such items retain their power even in the real world, the forest, defeats the beast, finds the stone, and pulls out 
but changelings are cautious with them, since dormant the Sword, she becomes the true queen of the land. Since 
Fae Titles have been known to wake under unpredictable the Storm King has now broken its oath to rule forever, its 
circumstances. Changelings who break Fae oaths gain the fate is in the new queen’s hands.
Oathbreaker Condition (p. 343) as normal, but the Wyrd 
may demand disproportionate restitution for the betrayal. One Thousand and 

Any Title can make a bargain by swearing upon One Stories
the Fae’s true Name. Fae bargains work differently than The following examples of the Gentry can serve as in-
changeling bargains do. Both parties must agree to per- spiration for players looking to create their characters’ Keep-
form a task, give up a possession, abide by a rule, or some- ers or for Storytellers looking for principal antagonists.
thing equally concrete and clearly communicated. For the 
True Fae, the consequences for failing to uphold its end is Grandmother, Grandmother
permanent destruction. A non-Gentry party must swear 
upon something crucially important to her — her own Deep in the Wood, past Bone Hill and over Rickety 
name (and thus her life), perhaps, or that of a loved one; a Bridge, sits a cozy little cabin in the middle of a broad 
favorite memory; her Hollow or home; or something else. clearing. It has a little garden in the back full of dream-
If she fails to uphold her end of the bargain, whatever she a-drupes and stabapples, a pen for the piglins and milk-
swore upon is forfeit to the Fae to do with as it pleases, beast, and a stout stone tower rises from one corner. It’s 
and the Wyrd backs up the claim. here that Grandmother, Grandmother raises “her” chil-

dren. She takes them from the mortals, you know; the 
Since Gentry pledges have such dire consequences ones who are neglected or abused, or just plain running 

when broken, the Fae don’t make them often or lightly. wild and in need of a firm hand. Grandmother has specif-
Convincing one of the Good Cousins to make a pledge is ic ideas about what a family looks like, and she molds her 
difficult at best and usually requires a changeling to set up changelings into the roles she sees fit: The Eldest Who 
an untenable situation for it first. A Fae in mortal danger Can Do No Wrong, the Gifted Child, the Black Sheep, 
always has the chance to try to make a pledge and save its the Forgotten Middle Child, and so on. Grandmother’s 
life before it’s consigned to oblivion, but it can’t force the vision rarely matches the personality of the youths she 
other party to agree. Of course, the True Fae aren’t above takes, but then, that’s where the conflict comes from.
extracting binding promises from others without actually 
pledging anything in return, if they can pull it off. Grandmother, Grandmother’s domain encompasses 

the clearing, the cottage, and a vast tract of dark, spooky 
Vulnerability and Death woodlands surrounding it. The woods are strictly for-

bidden to all of Grandmother’s “children,” and are fully 
A True Fae never takes bashing damage from any- stocked with dangerous beasts, ghosts, and any number 

thing other than its banes (including iron), and takes le- of fairy-tale-appropriate dangers. They also contain the 
thal damage only from banes unless an attacker speaks its only paths from Grandmother’s domain to the Hedge and 
true Name or it breaks an oath, as above. Only cold-iron thence, back to Earth.
weapons can deal aggravated damage to the Gentry.

Grandmother herself is the manifestation of this Gen-
The intricate web of promises and deals that govern a try’s third Title: a sweet, smiling old woman who always 

True Fae makes it vulnerable in other ways, too. If a change- resembles the archetypal grandmother figure in whatever 
ling finds a Regalia’s physical representation and learns one culture she’s preying on. When she’s angered, though, the 
of the rules that binds its Title to the Fae, she may be able to façade slips: At first, it’s just a flash of sharp teeth or burning 
manipulate the situation such that the Title breaks its oath, 

The True Fae 271



reptilian eyes, but when she reveals herself in her full fury, them out until all you can dream of is him, the gates, and 
Grandmother, Grandmother is a true terror. Spindly, twig- the other poor souls he’s put his mark on. The more of 
like limbs belie an unholy strength; papery, wrinkled skin those he gathers, the more those gates creak open, and 
deflects blows like armor; and cruel needle teeth and razor every night you wake up screaming.
claws dish out horrifying corporal punishment. The Man with the Ergot Smile is an exiled True Fae, 

Grandmother is choosy about the mortals she ab- cut off from his Titles and dominions by dint of some un-
ducts: always children, never older than 16 or 17, and fathomable Gentry conflict. The terms of his exile are a 
all from home-life situations that could charitably be de- Contract, as are all things in Arcadia: When 100 mad-
scribed as “troubled.” Street kids and those stuck in the men dream as one, the Man may return to Arcadia, and 
foster-care system, children from abusive households, not before. The Contract never said this had to occur 
even latchkey kids Grandmother sees as “neglected” are naturally, and so the Man with the Ergot Smile slips from 
all likely targets. Once she’s lured or taken them back to dream to dream, planting the seeds of his nightmare and 
her cottage, Grandmother introduces them to their new nurturing them as patiently as any gardener. When his 
“siblings” and puts them in a twisted, fairy-tale version poisonous dreams finally bloom, he will go home.
of a family drama. Over the years, “her” kids are shaped, All too aware that being fully embodied is a vulnerabil-
willingly or not, into changelings reflecting these roles: ity, the Man with the Ergot Smile avoids the physical realm 
The Bossy Oldest Child becomes a Fairest while the For- and its attendant dangers. Instead he lives in the world of 
gotten Middle Child becomes a Darkling, and the Wild dreams, skipping from mind to mind along hidden paths and 
Child who spends all her time getting punished might end Dreaming Roads, never staying too long in one dream realm. 
up an Ogre or a Wizened. He resembles a man, slim and average height, dressed in a 

At any given time, Grandmother, Grandmother like- slightly old-fashioned black suit with a black bowler hat. The 
ly has anywhere from three to five children in the cottage. only color about him is a crimson umbrella he carries like a 
Inevitably, some of them escape (though almost never all walking stick. Dreamers only ever see him from behind as 
at once — it seems like every time new children arrive, he looks expectantly toward the gates of Arcadia, but lucid 
at least one big brother or sister is already there to show dreamers or changelings hunting him report that his face is 
them the ropes). Others die. Still others turn 18. Exactly startlingly ordinary — until he smiles, and the world cracks 
what that means is something the kids debate in hushed, around you and Clarity runs like melted wax.
after-bedtime whispers. Some say Grandmother lets you Though he no longer rules a realm within Arcadia and 
go, since you’re an adult and all. Others say she takes you thus cannot take new changelings, the Man with the Ergot 
into the forest and sacrifices you to something even more Smile once held dominion over a vast and twisty sanitarium, 
horrible than she. Still others say that, if you’re still there wherein he broke down captive mortals utterly, just to see 
on your 18th birthday, you’re trapped forever, a True Fae what they would build themselves back up as. His patients 
in your own right. ended up with any seeming, depending on what kinds of 

Grandmother, Grandmother adheres to a decidedly tortures he devised and how they managed to endure them.
old-school style of parenting: Good children get smiles Signs and portents follow the Man with the Ergot 
and sweet treats (goblin fruits that encourage docility Smile, signs that echo the realm he once ruled. When the 
and pliability), while bad children provoke her wrath. Man is active in the area, admittance at the local mental 
Bad children are sent to bed without supper, given extra hospitals spike sharply. Incidences of dancing plague, sud-
chores, or, as a final resort, sent into the Wood to cut their den dissociative states, and St. Anthony’s Fire trail in his 
own switch. Since this is the only time Grandmother al- wake, and a trained occultist can use those signs to follow 
lows any of her children to go past the eaves of the forest, him and pinpoint his likely next victim.
it’s often the best chance they have to escape. The Dark-
ling might abandon her brothers and sisters to run while The Three Androgynes
she can, while the Fairest refuses to leave them behind. Once upon a time, we told stories of wicked fairies in 
The Ogre takes that switch right back to Grandmother the woods, because the woods were dangerous and it was 
and dares her to do her worst. folly to go there. Now, we do not fear the forest anymore, for 
The Man with  we have gone to stranger places by far: the seas, the skies, 

the Ergot Smile and very nearly the stars. What stories do we tell to warn 
our young and innocent away from them? We tell stories of 

From dream to dream he walks, all dapper suits and silvery ships and strange, gray beings, child-sized but wise 
bright red umbrella. His back is always to the dreamer, beyond knowing. When you’re someplace you shouldn’t be, 
always looking toward the huge, thorny gates that loom someplace that transgresses, they appear in a beam of blind-
on the horizon. It doesn’t matter if he sees you, though ing light, carry you off through a hole in the sky, and peel 
— once you’ve seen him, he infests your dreams, hollows back your layers amid a galaxy of thorny stars.

272 Chapter Five: Shared Nightmares



Whether the Three Androgynes have always been as scurry about, seeking succor or escape or a way to stop 
they are now, adapted themselves with the rise of UFO the plague. The sun rises and sets, the seasons turn, and 
folklore, or indeed are a new Gentry altogether, born of a year later the board resets. All is as it was, forever and 
stories of flying saucers and alien experiments, no one can ever, plague without end.
say. Their realm is an endless starship, all sleek chrome The Year of Plague is an unusual Fae Title, in that its 
and art-deco fins, containing a multitude of sterile labo- domain isn’t a region of Arcadia so much as it is a span of 
ratories, operating theaters, and prison cells — or perhaps time: specifically, a year of terrible epidemics and plague 
“zoo enclosures” is more apt. Most of the alien beasts held outbreaks. Every 365 days, the Year “resets,” returning to 
within are part and parcel of the realm itself, but the An- a zero state shortly after the outbreak. The exact plague 
drogynes pride themselves on their extensive collection and its environs change every year: Sometimes it’s Lon-
of humanity. They curate it carefully, always seeking the don in the midst of the Black Death, or a Ghanaian vil-
broadest spectrum of humankind they can acquire. lage during the 1918 influenza pandemic. Other times it 

The Three Androgynes themselves (and even within resembles no earthly place or disease at all.
the nebulous concept of Gentry identity, they’re recognized The Year of Plague seldom manifests a character to 
as a single being) are the archetypal “grays” made popular speak with, preferring to observe its changelings at a re-
by everything from science-fiction TV shows to late-night move. On the rare occasions that it does, it’s a tattered, 
radio programs: about three feet high, slender, with bul- empty thing of red rags and a medieval plague doctor’s 
bous heads housing enormous, solid-black eyes made all the mask, from which noxious vapors spill endlessly. When 
more striking by their tiny, almost rudimentary noses and it needs to act directly, whether to fetch new changelings 
mouths. They sometimes sport silvery, one-piece “uniforms” or rein in a study subject grown unruly, it prefers to act 
and sometimes appear nude (though all three lack any in- through goblins or a Huntsman, which naturally follow 
dication of sex or gender). They’re always together, whether the same plague doctor motif as they don his livery.
they’re flying their craft from the control deck or slicing an The Year of Plague casts a wide net for its change-
experimental subject into cross sections and rearranging the lings. Anyone who survived a brush with a deadly disease 
internal organs just to see what happens. is a potential candidate, as is anyone living in the out-

Mortals the Three Androgynes take have one pur- break zone of an epidemic. The Year often takes doctors 
pose: to be guinea pigs and test subjects for bizarre ana- and humanitarian-aid workers, opportunists and scaven-
tomical experimentation. Some become Beasts or Ogres gers, and throws them all into a nightmare scenario to see 
when their Keepers splice their genes with those of other how they adapt and react. Its changelings become Wiz-
creatures. Others become Elementals or Darklings, par- ened when they try over and over to cure the incurable, 
tially replaced with advanced mechanical prostheses or or Ogres when they decide the best thing to do is put ev-
reconfigured into nothing human at all, with vast cosmic eryone out of their misery. They may unite survivors and 
knowledge forced into their minds. Still others are rebuilt spread hope to become Fairest, or eschew the company of 
to be flawless, hailed as Fairest success stories and paraded others altogether to protect themselves and become scav-
about on display. A few are forced to participate in experi- enger Beasts.
mentation on other subjects in a perverse kind of medical Naturally, most of the “plague victims” in the Year of 
school; these changelings become Wizened. Plague are puppets, mere extensions of the Year itself and 

For all that it seems to fly about the cosmos at great thus of no use to its studies. Every cycle, though, the Year 
speed many light-years from earth, it’s no harder to escape claims a number of mortals. Sometimes it takes a small 
the Androgynes’ realm than any other Arcadian domain. cadre and places them together to examine their group 
Some changelings simply fling themselves out an airlock dynamics; other times it takes a larger number and scat-
and force themselves to endure the agony of vacuum un- ters them across its domain, so it can see how they try to 
til they “land.” Others manage to slip the containment survive on their own. Anyone who has not escaped before 
fields on their cells, steal a small shuttlecraft, and reverse- the year is up is lost in the resetting: perhaps unmade en-
engineer the alien control surfaces so they might escape tirely, or perhaps reduced to one of the automata set dress-
via “wormhole” back to earth; or take control of the ship ing the next incarnation of the Year. Escape might come 
itself and crash it unceremoniously into the Hedge. when a character realizes that civilization is but a thin 

The Year of Plague veneer over chaos and ceases playing along, embraces the 
disease as his way out, or leads the survivors to work to-

Under a sullen red sun, the cracked and blistered gether and find a loophole. Actually curing the disease 
earth gives up foul vapors and poisoned waters. The dead would likely end the Year entirely, ejecting any change-
lay uncounted in their heaps, and the dying are too rav- lings still within back to the mortal realm.
aged by disease to seek shelter or dig graves. Changelings 

The True Fae 273



Part VI

Wendy
Adopting children is, theoretically, difficult. There are lots of interviews, and social workers asking 

how secure your income really is. And the occasional insinuation that a child might prefer to be with 
someone more like them. It’s less difficult when the children don’t…exist, exactly. An extra handful of 
model minority children can disappear if you take them to the right neighborhood. But it gets harder again 
when you try to take them to the hospital or put them in school. Peter had a broken arm. June couldn’t 
read. Robin thought I was a fairy. Summer couldn’t speak English. And Michael wanted me to like him so 
badly it hurt my heart. They sang like birds, and could, to our mutual discovery, be both at once. Bird-
children, running from someone who hurt them so badly I hear them crying in their sleep every night, 
huddled together in my bed. She kidnapped them, and took away everything they could have been. I’ve 
had my worthiness questioned. I’ve been told that none of the things I am are important. But no one ever 
really took them away, no one pulled them out of my heart. At least I can give a little of that back to 
them. They don’t actually look much like me, or each other, but most Americans can’t tell the difference. 
Especially not with hapa kids. 

I hadn’t specifically wanted children. But I had some time on my hands, a landlord who was willing 
to look the other way while I sorted out some “runaways” I found sleeping outside, and nothing worthier 
to be doing. But four children, one teenager, and an adult can’t stay in an efficiency forever. Not with-
out something to prove I wasn’t just another kidnapper. So the six of us decided that I had a handful of 
runaway cousins. We would be close enough family that I could maybe get custodianship while we tried to 
find birth certificates. To see if they had parents who knew their birth names. 

I thought my inquiries and public records searches had been subtle. But then, I’ve never done this be-
fore. After a few days, I was sure I was being followed, but I couldn’t think of by whom. ICE would have 
just busted down my door. The FBI would have detained me. The woman who came to my door smelled 
like wildflowers and sun, and her hair moved in a breeze that I couldn’t see.

The conversation that followed made my head feel fuzzy, and faintly exposed. Like I might have said 
some things I wouldn’t have otherwise said out loud. Some things I wouldn’t have admitted. But then she 
took off her face and gave me a happy smile, and offered us a place to stay. A stipend. A line on some 
better papers. It would be easier if they were my own kids on paper, then she could earmark the stipend as 
alimony for my bank. It all made sense at the time, and at the end we were crying and hugging, and I felt 
better than I had in a lifetime.

It was only a couple of months later, as I was waiting for Summer to come out of a dressing room, that it 
really hit me. I was wholly responsible for five children who had never been safe in their lives. One who could 
barely remember the world his siblings brought him back to, who just followed Summer and Peter out of love. 
They needed everything, and almost nothing. They could feed themselves and clean the house and walk around 
safely in any weather. They could only sometimes speak without breaking into birdsong. They got spooked by 
crowds of people and guarded their food like they thought someone might take it. And I was getting paid to 
keep them out of trouble and socialize them into human society. It was my literal job to raise them up right. 



After several deep breaths, I emailed my old Mandarin teacher, put Peter in charge of making dinner, and went 
to go have my panic attack somewhere out of their line of sight.

I drove around aimlessly for nearly an hour after taking them home. Home. And wound up back at a 
coffee shop near the bay, chairs and tables scattered over a balcony that jutted out over the rocks. I used 
to live near here, back before everything. The coffee was still overpriced and under-brewed, but the fa-
miliarity was nice. I half recognized the man sitting out on the balcony from old runs. He walked slowly, 
sometimes talking so softly I could only see his lips move as I ran past. Harmless, if a little creepy. I 
guess kids have made me a soft touch, because when he gave me a plaintive, lonely look, I walked over.

I didn’t have time to scream, so I sent Peter 15 texts, and drove home in the sudden downpour. With 
a man who wouldn’t stop whispering about the end of the world. I tried not to notice when the lights cut, 
but when a finger streaked along the windshield I started shaking and didn’t stop until I opened the lobby 
door to what had only been my home for a handful of months. There were the three women arguing, 
with hardly room for a shadow between them. Staring directly at them, a man who smelled like lightning 
striking, who flickered like the world was dropping frames. Then he was pressed amid the women, tightly 
grasping their shoulders.

Clear your mind, Wendy. Get his attention. John trailed behind me like a lost thing as I strode towards 
them. My brain was screaming, pitched high and terrified for everyone I would lose if I didn’t step just 
right. If Peter missed even one of the neighbors I sent him to. If the blonde didn’t extend her trust, and 
help me ground the women who were already fading under his touch.

“Well, isn’t this a sweet tête-à-tête.” His voice kept tuning like a broken radio, words hissing around 
the static.

We were in a wide, tile-floored atrium. The kind designed by someone who’s never lived along a 
heavily trafficked apartment hallway. Noisy. Sound muddied as it bounced back and forth between the tile 
and the glass, shoes squeaking and rain pelting and people yelling as softly as they could over the din. I 
cracked the heel of my boot hard against the tile three times. The echo was as loud as I could have hoped 
it would be. Everyone who was left inside stilled and stared.

“I think you should leave. You’re making those women uncomfortable.” Focus on the moment. “Get 
out of our building.” People were shuffling between me and the doors outward. I listened for the click, and 
heard an anguished howl from outside. Someone pounding on the glass doors trying to get in. I couldn’t 
look. His laughter was like breaking glass.

I took another step forward, clacking my boots again, and pushed the blonde’s arm. “Grab their 
hands,” I whispered, “they need an anchor.” I shoved her close enough to them that she would need to 
grab hold of them to keep her balance. She almost let herself fall anyway, finally landing hard against the 
taller woman’s collarbone. 

The three women all shuddered a little at the touch, and the two dazed ones began to shake off what-
ever hold he had on them.

“Not today, Satan.” And Preeti slammed her fist against the back of his head.
Smoke billowed up from the floor in hot waves, and the glass above us shattered, shards crashing down 

around us.






For there we loved, and where we love is home, 
Home that our feet may leave, but not our hearts, 

Though o’er us shine the jasper-lighted dome: 
The chain may lengthen, but it never parts!

Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr., Homesick in Heaven

Eighty-Nine Dreams So someone returning from Arcadia (or xian jing) might 
find an unexpected level of social acceptance. Really, it 

of Home, the would be more embarrassing for your family if you didn’t 
Yuanfen Pavilion at least come back to explain yourself. The student or-

ganization you just joined might be the more dangerous 
Hong Kong association.
Hong Kong stands between. Between the mountains 

and the sea. Between the mainland and Britain, first, then Historiarum Obscura
the world at large. Between what China was, and might Returning home, to your identity, is complicated. It, 
be. Convenient geography and imperial disunity turned and you, remember each other as if fixed in time, every-
a lightly inhabited set of islands into a thriving, stable thing as it was when you parted ways. But, of course, nei-
economy, one that plays host to an-ever increasing num- ther of you is the same. Now Hong Kongese changelings 
ber of immigrants. It’s beautiful there, even through the have yet another dual identity to balance — western or 
waves of smog drifting down the Pearl River delta. The Chinese, fae or human. Hong Kong isn’t quite either, and 
high mountains are dotted with nook shrines and parks, neither are you.
with neighborhoods nestled among them connected by Circumstance underlined how liminal the golden del-
stairs, tunnels, and long bridges latticing the landscape. ta could be. Once upon a time it may have been merely a 

The 89th Pavilion is where a changeling might find few thousand kilometers of coast and peak, interrupted by 
themselves if they missed China, but not the People’s Re- the odd fishing village and wooded valley. Striking, and 
public. It’s easier, in some ways, to be a magical creature home to the occasional pirate, emperor in exile, or po-
here. The supernatural is so common it’s a subject of idle litical dissident, but remote. Chinese changelings largely 
conversation. Ghosts make regular appearances in soap gravitated to larger towns. Rural life was too close to the 
operas, fox shrines are tucked away next to train stations, Hedge and too far from anyone who might truly under-
and astrology booths are packed in the Ladies’ Market stand their experiences. When the trading door opened 
alongside knockoff Sanrio pajamas and tissue-box covers. a crack, Hong Kong offered a more compelling option. 

Eighty-Nine Dreams of Home, The Yuanfen Pavilion 277



Trade with the Portuguese and the British stirred up new Any hint that a “visitor” might plan not to return was met with 
industries. Changelings could establish new lives, away violence, and a dual-fae nature was no more likely to save a life 
from the long shadow of a disappearance and a quietly than innocence was. Fleeing to British Hong Kong might seem 
disapproving family. like giving up sovereignty for safety, but that only seems like a 

Even before it became the opium gate, Hong Kong bad deal for those who haven’t spent a century trying to main-
started diverging from the mainland. While mainland tain a family line while navigating other people’s wars. Forced to 
China was reinvesting in tradition, Hong Kong was get- build yet more new identities, changelings wrapped themselves 
ting more diverse, more adventurous, more mixed, and in human culture, and integrated. 
more religious. But, despite the best efforts of missionaries Now, Hong Kong is an ambivalent part of the emerg-
smuggled into China, Christianity didn’t replace folk reli- ing Pearl River Delta megacity: part of China, but not 
gion so much as become absorbed wholly into it. Converts quite. Sovereign, but only until 2047. Beijing, the capital 
followed regional blends of Confucianism, Taoism, ances- of the People’s Republic, is making its presence known 
tor veneration, Buddhism, and their preferred selection of here in ways both large and small. Journalists disappear, 
pantheistic immortals. And when the Taiping Heavenly though less frequently than in mainland China. Phones 
Kingdom swept through southern China, it was in the are bugged, though less obviously and flagrantly. Pro-Chi-
name of one of those syncretic Christianities. Christians, na government officials are elected by improbable mar-
as a whole, received a large portion of the blame for the gins, but not to every post, and they don’t always win. 
United Kingdom’s intervention in the Taiping Rebellion, Citizens eager to remake Hong Kong’s court into a mirror 
and converts quickly became unwelcome in their commu- of Beijing’s infiltrate the Dragon Court, and some court-
nities. Christianity was inferior, western, and unpatriotic. iers know about it.
Worse, it came with opium as a price tag. 

Following two opium wars (exacerbated by the Taip- The Dragon Court
ing Rebellion), the United Kingdom collected Hong Kong Neither the European-style Seasonal Courts nor the 
at the point of a gunboat. Chinese changelings, who had mainland Directional Courts ever stuck in the 89th Pavilion. 
been quietly filtering into a growing community, found Everything about the Seasonal Court structure was 
themselves abruptly cut off from the rest of their home. wrong. It bore little resemblance to the Confucian imperial 
Some had begun putting down roots, but the Dragon court, and few Hong Kong residents thought of themselves 
Court was established to govern a transient population: as anything but Chinese. The five phases of China divide the 
temporarily embarrassed craftsmen and scholars, who year into a different number of seasons, each with a different 
were simply working towards what they needed to restore community function and emotional resonance; but the Brit-
their family’s regard. Suddenly, the western shipping trade ish actively discouraged the Directional Courts, eventually 
was more than just business. pushing them out of Hong Kong entirely. Later, the revolu-

British rule offered security and oppression in equal tion made western trappings a dangerous affectation. And, 
measure, providing a continuity of infrastructure and of course, four is the unluckiest number, a preemptive admis-
economy that withstood a century of civil unrest in Chi- sion of defeat when the courts of Hong Kong should be doing 
na, on the back of causing its fair share of that unrest. what they can to compound their changelings’ luck.
Human Han Chinese immigrants were increasingly shut Escaping Arcadia in the first place was evidence of 
out of Hong Kong’s governance, but few western change- good fortune, and a careful changeling has the potential 
lings identified strongly enough with Hong Kong to return to build a stable future on that seed of luck. Accordingly, 
there. Despite devastating losses of life in the many wars the Dragon Court offers stability, and the aura of luck. 
and armed conflicts that followed, that imbalance meant Power is never transferred from society to society, but held 
that Hong Kongese changelings retained a great deal of in balance by the nine children of the dragon. Three so-
sovereignty. They actively opposed the will of those few cieties — Morning, Day, and Night — each contribute 
British changelings who returned (or chose to emigrate), three delegates to the court. The selection of delegates 
intending to install themselves as the supernatural as well is a private decision held within each society, but societ-
as mundane authority in Hong Kong. ies are encouraged to choose delegates willing to squabble 

Hong Kong wasn’t intended to be a sanctuary city, but sta- amongst themselves: changelings as devoted to the city’s 
bility (regardless of the cause) is good for business. So when the health as a whole as they are to the roles their society fills 
people’s revolution started, the British didn’t turn away anyone in Hong Kong. The eldest of all delegates is considered 
who happened to have financial stakes in Hong Kong, or valu- the first among equals, and holds largely organizational 
able higher education. Once the first wave settled in, anyone authority. A changeling may find, as she ages or as her 
who had something to lose found a reason to visit family on the life circumstances change, that her affiliation changes as 
other side of the demilitarized zone. Like human refugees, the well. Status in one society doesn’t carry over to others, 
changelings that fled the People’s Republic left with nothing. but changelings remember where they last heard a name.

278 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



The Dragon Court is more a throwback to a romanti- likely to be mediators in changeling conflicts, and the ar-
cized past than an authentic tradition carried from the Qin chitects of large-scale projects. The most involved in day-
dynasty, but the Romance of the Three Kingdoms holds to-day maintenance of Hong Kong, they tend to cultivate 
roughly the same place in Chinese pop culture that Arthuri- the sources Morning changelings use to gain new knowl-
an legend holds in the west. It’s a narrative that unites a very edge, and find a place for those people in the 89th Pavilion. 
diverse community, grounding them in the same Confucian Many changelings have Day to thank for their homes and 
ideals that pervade mundane society. Modern Hong Kongese jobs. Many changelings owe Day favors. 
changelings are as likely to find it comforting as confining. Changelings who join the Society of Day tend to be 

Society of Morning practical and ambitious, but overconfident.
Mantle Effects: The Day Mantle is warm and thrum-

The Society of Morning holds domain over birth, growth, ming, welcoming but demanding. The ground beneath 
and discovery of the new. They are the most likely to actively the courtier’s feet feels sturdier. The air smells strongly 
search for changelings stumbling out of Arcadia, and to pump of industry and sweat and ripe fruit. No matter how re-
them for stories about their experiences or knowledge gained lentless the pace, the courtier himself seems peaceful and 
there. They are messengers and seekers after novelty for its measured — planted solidly in the earth.
own sake. They are eager to find information, confident that 
its usefulness will be made clear in the course of its discovery. Your character gains a Glamour point whenever he 
Restless pursuit has yielded distressing news, though. They successfully resolves a conflict between two changelings.
have reason to believe societies from Beijing are attempting •	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
to infiltrate all three of the Hong Kong societies. dots on mundane rolls to continue a project some-

Changelings who join the Society of Morning tend one else started.
to be idealistic and driven, but easy to anger or distract. ••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 

Mantle Effects: The Morning Mantle is as bright and dots on mundane rolls to repair something that 
sharp as a sunrise. The air around the courtier smells of new was nearly thrown away.
things — doors and windows thrown open for the first time, 
in a long-empty house. The courtier herself flickers, dancing •••	 G ain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle dots 
in place like a flame, eager to be moving, eager to consume. on mundane rolls to mediate between hostile parties.

Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she ••••	 R educe the Glamour cost of Contracts by one 
gains new knowledge through reckless pursuit. when using them to extend or improve an exist-

ing public work.
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 

dots on mundane rolls for gathering information •••••	 T he industry of the world turns on your finger. 
on a subject new to her. Once per chapter, automatically find whatever 

minor or uncommon mundane tools are necessary 
••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle for the task at hand.

dots on mundane rolls related to instability or im-
permanence. Society of Night

•••	 Regain a point of Willpower when your character The Society of Night holds domain over death, retreat, 
tells a truth that implicates a coworker or friend. and the stillness of contemplation. What Morning seeks and 

Day maintains, Night uses. They search the records created 
••••	 Automatically succeed on attempts to persuade by Morning and Day to think up new defenses, new weap-

another changeling to share information relevant ons. They take point in pursuit of Huntsmen and the Fae, 
to the safety of the freehold that they defend and often shadow the Morning changelings who deliberately 
against mundanely; this prompts a Clash of Wills return to the Hedge. Night does not need to actively recruit; 
against supernatural defenses. the most martially inclined changelings find them. Individu-

•••••	 Once per chapter, your character may deflect one of al Night members often work more closely with changelings 
her negative Clarity Conditions onto someone else by from other societies than they do with one another.
revealing an unknown truth about them; this doesn’t Changelings who join the Society of Night tend to 
heal any Clarity damage for her or grant a Beat, and be persistent and intelligent, but controlling and critical.
the target doesn’t take any Clarity damage. Mantle Effects: The Night Mantle is luminous and 

Society of Day studded with stars. A dry chill fills the air and presses 
into your bones, pausing the frantic heat of the day. The 

The Society of Day holds domain over marriage, frui- courtier may shake in the wind, but her hand never falters 
tion, and moderation of opposing forces. They are the most while acting in the darkness. 

Eighty-Nine Dreams of Home, The Yuanfen Pavilion 279



Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she English. And so lucky. Why wouldn’t she be offered a free 
follows a hunt to its logical conclusion. fortune while strolling through Temple Street, under the 
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle flickering neon? But the booth was so much bigger on the 

dots on mundane rolls to research a problem her inside, and her feet caught in the brambles underfoot. Her 
freehold has encountered before. older sisters were waiting for her, with a heavy banbi embroi-

dered with foxes. She owed them so many favors for all the 
••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle luck they had generously saved up for her. By the time she 

dots on mundane rolls to shadow or investigate a snuck back out of her sisters’ house, her waistcoat had sunk 
new informant. into her skin, and her long brush tail swept the pavement 

•••	 Regain a Willpower point when your character behind her. Her parents were accepting, but distant with a 
deliberately makes a difficult choice that inflicts a daughter they remembered mainly as a failed actress. After 
Condition on her. all, she dropped out of sight when most would-be actresses 

were building their modeling careers. After a few months of 
••••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle fruitless casting calls, a pale man who claimed to be an old 

dots when concealing a defensive fact about her- school friend offered Summer a strange job: Play a humei in 
self or her freehold. a period soap opera, and sneak in an extra line or two he’d 

•••••	 When attacking a target your character has previ- text her each morning, for pay so good she could move back 
ously pursued out of premeditated violence, she out of her parents’ home.
deals aggravated damage. Xiaoming

Faces He doesn’t like to be tied down with labels. He’s a 
companion, and a friend. Someone to bring home for 

Summer Wong lunar new year, when you can’t stand another question 
about why you don’t have a boyfriend. Someone who has 

Summer grew up knowing she was special. The only just enough of an opinion about Beijing politics, but not 
surviving daughter to doting parents, she was beautiful and so much as to scandalize your grandmother. Sometimes 
British-educated, fluent in Canto, Mandarin, Korean, and 

280 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



he’s a law student, or wealthy from the import of some Tangerine
fruit you don’t remember the name of. But he knows what Seven million people are fighting for the same 100 
you are, and he’s one, too. He keeps your secrets for as square miles — so no one you know can afford an apart-
long as you want him to, as long as you don’t expect to be ment in Hong Kong, let alone a whole single-use building. 
exclusive. He travels a lot, and he thinks you’d get lonely Tangerine trades in fashionable food culture during the 
if it was just him in your life. But what was it you were day, and subcultures at night. Latte art and queer book 
saying about your college friends? When exactly did they signings, galaxy cakes and slam poetry, fairy cakes and 
get it into their heads to protest the People’s Republic? actual fairies. Make it on the text chain, and you’ll know 
Xiaoming is certainly a spy, though for whom it’s not quite when the meetups are. Meet other changelings under the 
clear. He has friends in Day, but also in Morning, and he watchful eyes of your friends (rather than your employers). 
spends an awful lot of time in Beijing these days. Meet your fetch in neutral territory. Dance with anyone 
Eddie and Alexia Siu you’d like, so long as you buy a few drinks and keep it 

civil.
Eddie and Alexia technically separated about 10 

years ago, but by that point their businesses were so in- Night Market
tertwined that it didn’t seem worth the trouble to actu- The Temple Street Night Market is an enduring 
ally get divorced, or move out of one another’s buildings. monument to both a vigorous fusion food culture and the 
She owns the house they still live in; he owns the Macau shared desire of humans and hobgoblins to siphon money 
casino her restaurant is in. Really, it’s more convenient off the drunk and impulsive. Share your noodles, studded 
this way. They split over society membership, actually. with pomelo and pale blue mushrooms, with the little girl 
Eddie’s fae-touched and a builder, and Day gives him as in a paper crown. Have a six-eyed fortune teller identify 
many odd, lonely souls as he can find jobs for. Alexia had whether the ghost of an ancestor besets you, or if this is 
some aggression for which she needed Night to give her your strife year. Exorcise a demon and get your pocket 
an outlet. They’re loyal to their societies, but their habit is picked listening to quail-faced opera singers. Haggle for a 
still to tell each other everything, even — or especially — tea set with an auntie whose hair is the color of cobalt and 
during loud arguments. Their fellow courtiers know not celadon. Talk politics with the shop cats.
to tell them anything they wouldn’t want passing along as 
Hedgevine gossip. Lantau Island
Places Buffeted by strong winds and heavy fogs, dotted with 

high, impassable peaks, Lantau Island is more nature park 
Mei Ho House than business center. It’s so picturesque you might almost 

overlook that entrances to the Hedge are particularly per-
Mei Ho House is a public housing project turned his- missive here. It’s easy to see how resistances could van-

torical building turned youth hostel, built on the remains ish into the valleys between Phoenix and Sunset peaks, 
of a catastrophic fire. These days, students can rent rooms both accidentally and on purpose. In fact, during World 
in the same building where the KMT and CPC rioted over War II it was a major base of operations for the Chinese 
who could (and should) successfully unite China. That resistance. From hiding places in those deep glades, they 
frustrated anger and lust for justice burned into the bones conducted raids, ambushes, and resupplying missions into 
of the building. Emotions run hot here. Fights start faster. both Japanese and Fae-controlled territories. These days, 
Arguments get pointed, and political. Just don’t stay too a few formerly British changelings maintain a sparsely at-
long, or you’ll regret what you said. The Society of Night tended Seasonal Court freehold in exile out in the hills.
rents here, and owns more than its fair share of the coffin 
homes throughout the city, packed full of Filipina domes- The Council  
tic workers, student protesters, travelers, and intrigue.

of Elves
Ladies’ Market

Reykjavík, Iceland
Tung Choi Street’s Ladies’ Market is an infamous 

tourist trap. A place to buy knockoffs of questionable It is not a large city, numbering around 130,000 peo-
provenance and DVDs of wuxia movies that came out ple, but the name Reykjavík still carries weight among the 
yesterday. But you’d be surprised in whose voices the world’s freeholds. It is not an old city, having only seen 
songbirds sing. Or what charms, exactly, the woman with just over two centuries, but the Lost have been here for 
no eyes is giving to certain men who walk past. If your much longer.
mooncake has a curled message inside, the Night Society As the capital of Iceland, Reykjavík started seeing 
may be trying to warn you of something. conurbation in the 19th century, but it was in the 20th 

century that most of it was built. With a reasonably mild 

The Council of Elves 281



A long period of Norwegian and then Danish rule fol-
lowed for Iceland, and the Lost grew stronger in number 

Reykjavik Glossary and power, wielding their magics with subtlety and grace 
to protect their own. In 1597, the young twins Brynja and 

Álfheimur: Arcadia Skúli returned from the Hedge, and their cunning trick-
elf: changeling ery and heroic exploits became one of the most enduring 

and fondly remembered legends of Iceland’s elves. It was 
Elf-Kings: True Fae they who overthrew the corrupt King Eírikur and founded 

the Third Council of Elves, and they are often associated 
Hidden, the: All the peoples touched with the council in art and poetry.
by Arcadia in general; the Fae-Touched in 
particular After the fall of the corrupted Second Council, life 

was relatively easy for Iceland’s changelings. Against the 
lag (plural lög): court, literally “commu- Gentry — known here as the Elf-Kings — the council 
nity” or “society” provided a relatively unified front, cemented by tradition 

and a cordial relationship with their mortal neighbors. 
troll: hobgoblin Terror and loss mar Lost lives everywhere, but less here 

than most places.
All that is now changing. The lög can no longer de-

climate, the place is green in summer despite being just pend on their numbers being mostly Icelandic, and the 
south of the Arctic Circle. It was the center of the cordial isolated, pastoral lifestyle the Council of Elves was found-
Allied occupation during World War II, and afterward, ed alongside has been swept away. For the elves, change 
the winds of fortune were at the city’s back, making it a is not a good thing — “things were about as good as they 
wealthy place. With hot springs and a lively nightlife, it could get” is the consensus, and any change is only go-
is a popular tourist destination. It is also a place where ing to bring danger. And the danger has manifested: As 
over half the population are at least ambivalent to the the population of Iceland grows more urbanized, more 
existence of “the hidden people.” changelings are captured by Huntsmen or loyalists. To-

day, most Icelanders — elves included — live in Reykja-
It is not a place without conflict, though. Like other vík and its surrounding region, and the Elf-Kings have a 

European countries, xenophobia has been on the rise late- far smaller area to cover to find their escaped pets.
ly, with an underlying current of sentiments that foreign-
ers want harm to come to Iceland. Icelandic folklore says that elves are invisible or 

hidden in such a way that they can choose to whom 
Historiarum Obscura they appear. They would be surprised to find that elves 

live among them as normal people. The council has 
In 874, the Norse arrived in Iceland, driving out the historically had good relations with mortals. The hu-

Celtic Christian Papar monks. In 891, Gyða Hjalmarsdóttir man population of Iceland has mostly left alone those 
became the first Icelander to escape from Álfheimur — Ar- places elves consider their property, or sacred. In re-
cadia. The changeling Council of Elves reckons its founding turn, the council has done what it can to help with 
from this year. That and following events are all recorded in mortal issues, such as making sure the fish were tasty 
the Álfasögur, penned by Gyða herself from 892 to 1056, and and plentiful. This informal compact still stands, but 
then by other changeling hands until the modern era. the council is worried that it won’t last much longer, 

In 921, enough changelings — or elves — had es- as fewer and fewer Icelanders report believing in elves 
caped from Álfheimur to found the First Council of Elves, each year.
and they waged war upon the Svartabeinar tribe, of which Dotted across Iceland are portals to the Hedge in 
nothing more is known, until they drove the Svartabeinar large numbers, each marked with a pile of stones to make 
from Iceland. In 1007, the First Council fell apart amid them easier to find. Many of them were created by indi-
strife related to Iceland’s conversion to Christianity, and vidual Lost, and open near their personal Hollows. This 
the Second Council of Elves convened in 1009 after a makes it easier to find a Hedgeway in Iceland by far, and 
short, but bloody, period of war among the elves. even some mortals can direct a visitor to a stone pile be-

In 1262, Iceland fell under the Norwegian crown, and lieved to be a home to elves. This practice has endured in 
representatives of the Council of Elves traveled to Bergen part because mortals respect these markings, and avoid 
to swear allegiance to King Hákon Hákonarson. It was here disturbing them. The council keeps up relations with 
that the elven maiden Iðunn was said to have placed the mortal experts to let the mortal population know which 
king under a spell, dooming him to a swift death if his lust for places are claimed, and some among the Lost also act as 
conquest could not be tamed. He died the next year. publicly known “elf experts.”

282 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



Hobgoblins are called trolls among Iceland’s Lost, •••	 G ain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
and they are larger and more powerful than hobgoblins dots on mundane rolls to sway a crowd into aban-
elsewhere. However, if the rays of the mortal sun strike an doning a longstanding tradition.
Icelandic troll, it turns to rock. ••••	 Regain a Willpower point whenever you resolve 
The Seasonal Loeg the Fragile or Volatile Condition for a plan your 

character created with a Build Equipment action.
The Council of Elves is a loosely organized commu-

nity made up of four wings: the Seasonal Societies, or lög •••••	 Your character can speak and understand all pres-
(sometimes transliterated “loeg”). Each lag is a part of the ent-day mundane languages, spoken and written.
greater whole, and each is responsible for administrative Summer
duties during its season. The lög do not have strict leader-
ship, instead convening for trials where different courses Summer is the season of toil. Fields need tilling, fish 
of action are debated and judged based on precedent, and need catching, and firewood needs chopping. The house 
then decided by an arbitrarily selected jury. must be repaired, and all other practical concerns must be 

Two lög are decidedly more powerful than the oth- attended to, because even though the weather is mild and 
ers: Summer and Winter are the two main seasons of Ice- relatively pleasant now, winter will come. But it is also the 
land, with Spring and Autumn minor in comparison. The time to enjoy life, and to sit under a sunlit sky and relax.
Summer and Winter Lög each have about twice as many That is what summer means in Icelandic culture. In 
members as Spring and Autumn, and they administer the the modern age, all these things are no longer true — sur-
council’s affairs for twice as long. Because of this, Spring viving winter means getting in a car and going to work, 
and Autumn often try to set aside their differences and just like all the other seasons. Nevertheless, the past and 
team up to get an equal say. its trials are not too far off, and elven culture cleaves to 

the past more than mortals do.
Spring The Summer Lag is generally friendly and helpful, 

Iceland is no longer what it once was. It once was but also stubborn and hidebound. They embrace mo-
poor, but now is wealthy, though not as much as it was dernity in their own fashion, and strongly support what 
before 2008’s economic crisis. It once was alone, but now they consider to be traditional Icelandic values: democ-
is part of the world. It once was a pastoral, farming-and- racy, equality, rule of law, and isolationism, both from 
fishing culture, but now it is a modern and technologically the world and from mortals. They are the workhorses of 
advanced country. the Lost, attending to all the practical details that need 

The Spring Lag embraces the new and scoffs at the attention, balancing budgets and maintaining the elven 
old. They are technophiles, addicted to their smartphones census, along with lists of elven properties and how much 
and Facebook pages, and consider themselves part of a tax each changeling owes the Council.
wider, European changeling society — the capital city Mantle Effects: Your character gains a Glamour 
of which is Reykjavík, of course. They are the ones who point whenever she takes a big risk to fulfill an obligation 
communicate elven needs to the Icelandic authorities via to perform a task.
a select few “elf experts,” and they are the ones who clean •	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
up the Winter Lag’s mess by cataloging all felled trolls and dots on mundane rolls to uphold a law or rule.
removing their stony remains.

The Spring Lag does not believe in tradition. Tradi- ••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
tion holds progress back, they say, and look how much dots on mundane rolls to shield mortals from the 
better and more comfortable everyone’s lives are now! truth of fae magic.
Things were boring before — life was tedious, and led to •••	 Once per chapter, you may spend a Willpower 
nothing but an early grave. point to grant your character additional dots of 

Mantle Effects: Your character gains a Glamour the Allies or Status Merit (p. 120) equal to her 
point whenever he convinces someone to abandon a pre- Mantle dots, to a maximum of five per ally group 
established plan. or organization, for the scene.

•	 Gain the benefits of the Direction Sense Merit ••••	 Increase your character’s effective Resolve by one 
(p. 121). when using it to contest mundane or supernatural 

persuasion attempts.
••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 

dots on mundane rolls to research something new •••••	 O nce per chapter, you may redistribute your mot-
with modern technology. ley’s total current Willpower points among all 

willing members in any combination.

The Council of Elves 283



Autumn go wrong far away from help. They are the warriors of 
They are the last outpost before all hope is gone. Au- the Council of Elves, fierce and patient, given to sudden 

tumn is a melancholy season, filled with wistfulness and outbursts of violence, and just as suddenly calming down 
regret and beautiful decay. Things die, and it is the Au- again. More than anyone, they hearken back to the Vi-
tumn Lag’s role to put all the Council’s affairs in order, king ancestors of the Icelandic people, their casual view 
because they will all die before the year is up. of violence and brutal sense of fun.

While they know they will survive winter, they be- Under the Winter Lag, practicalities are neglected 
lieve the Elf-Kings will come riding out from Álfheimur — that’s what the other seasons are for — while celebra-
any day now and end the little haven the Lost carved out. tion, contemplation, and sudden death are in focus. This 
Russia will invade someday. Nuclear war will come, and is when the Council of Elves stages expeditions into Álf-
the Gulf Stream is going to turn around, plunging Iceland heimur to rescue other Lost, and this is when changelings 
into eternal chaos. Or, as some think, the EU is going to fight one another in duels to the death, or murder one 
destroy Iceland and salt the earth. another with little reason. The other lög generally do not 

like the Winter Lag, seeing them as a throwback to less-
They are not the most practically-minded lag, but civilized times, but they accept that winter must have its 

they make that up in art and entertainment. They are the due, even though they resent it.
beautiful lag, focused on aesthetics and emotion. Their 
administration is marked by rites and remembrances, Mantle Effects: Your character gains a Glamour 
holy days and festivities — and above all, by a pessimistic point whenever he definitively wins a significant fight.
mood. Eat, drink, and be — if not merry, then at least •	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
ready, for tomorrow you might die. dots on rolls to navigate the Hedge.

Mantle Effects: Your character gains a Glamour point ••	 G ain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
whenever he succeeds at an unnecessarily risky action. dots on mundane rolls to survive in extreme envi-
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle ronments or endure deprivation; reduce all penal-

dots on mundane rolls to research something that ties from such hardships by one.
happened in the past that’s relevant to current •••	 All of your character’s physical attacks deal +1L 
events. damage as long as the fight is one on one and your 

••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle character started it.
dots on mundane rolls to convince someone to ••••	 Increase your character’s effective Composure by 
admit their feelings about something they’re re- one when using it to contest mundane or super-
luctant to share. natural attempts to change your character’s emo-

•••	 Once per chapter, you may reroll an Initiative roll tional state.
and choose which result to keep. •••••	 Y our character never suffers the Beaten Down 

••••	 Once per scene, regain a Willpower point when Tilt (p. 327), for any reason.
your character suffers a dramatic failure. Faces

•••••	 Whenever your character suffers a wound penalty, 
you may increase that penalty by one to allow an Armslength
ally to increase her Initiative by your character’s 
Mantle dots, once per turn. This effect is cumula- Half elf and half Greenland shark, Armslength is tac-
tive, but your character can’t suffer a wound pen- iturn and distant, but generally friendly. If they ever had a 
alty that exceeds −5. gender, it was never strongly held, and they left it behind 

in Álfheimur — what is the point of bothering to have a 
Winter gender identity for a shark person who will never belong 

in society anyway? Social constraints are for other people.
In Iceland, respecting nature is something every child 

learns. While all seasons can be lethal to the foolhardy or Armslength is torn between resentment for the cru-
the unlucky, winter is the season that can most easily kill. elty and abuse they faced at their Keeper’s hand, and grat-
While the cities and settlements are safe, only those with itude for the ability to breathe underwater, which leaves 
the experience to survive and the knowledge of when not the ocean open to explore. It’s a hatred tempered by the 
to take the risk should brave the wilderness in winter. acknowledgement that their love for the ocean would al-

ways be a distant love without their durance.
The Winter Lag embodies this duality, the calm and 

uneventful days when the farmer and fisherman stay in- Armslength is peaceful, more given to using their 
doors, and the unexpected death when things suddenly stature and razor-sharp upper teeth for intimidation than 

284 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



for violence. They often butt heads with Masked Jórunn unassuming structure, just a normal house overlooking 
over matters of war and dueling. They belong to the Au- the harbor. Inside, it serves as both administrative build-
tumn Lag, and generally only show up on land to partici- ing and social club for Reykjavík’s changelings. Here, be-
pate in council trials. ings made of living song converse with the big bad wolf 

over a beer and a video game to the sounds of their com-
Masked Jorunn rades practicing swordplay. In the basement sits the court-

When she was in Álfheimur, Jórunn was a Fae mir- house of the Council, in use to settle any and every elven 
ror, changed in face and body to be an exact replica of her matter throughout three of the four seasons.
Keeper. When she escaped, she did so by posing as the 
Elf-Queen, and afterward the first thing she did was make Rauthholar
a mask. Nobody has seen her face since then but her. The Rauðhólar, or Red Hills, are a series of volcanic 

As one of the more notable members of the Winter craters in the Heiðmörk nature reserve, and elven folklore 
Lag, Jórunn is a wrathful and warlike influence on the holds them to be the site of the old Svartabeinar stronghold, 
Council of Elves. She never forgives a slight, and she seiz- Today, the Council of Elves considers it a cursed area, ever 
es on and supports every suggestion of martial action. since it was used as a gravel pit during World War II. The 

Svartabeinar buried their dead in the craters themselves, 
Krzysztof Kowalczyk and now that the craters have been damaged, the dead rest 

Out of all of Reykjavík’s Lost, nobody is as thorough- uneasily. While mortals are quite safe, elven visitors occa-
ly Icelandic as Krzysztof. Though he is a Polish immigrant sionally simply vanish without a trace, and some who have 
and speaks with a thick accent, he loves Iceland with all traveled there at night report strange lights and sounds.
his heart. He uses the most ingrown old turns of phrase, Thingvellir
and cooks all the traditional dishes for the Autumn Lag’s 
festivities, despite being of the Summer Lag himself. He As the seat of Iceland’s government for almost 900 
loves nature, and spends a great deal of time outdoors. years, Þingvellir was also where the Council of Elves con-

He is a popular man, always surrounded by friends. vened for a long time. These days, the place, 40 kilome-
He’s lively and quick to laugh, a workhorse who takes ters (about 25 miles) away from Reykjavík, is a major tour-
more than his share and who expects hard work from ev- ist destination, and one of the main sources of anger and 
eryone around him. He is made of solid ice, and vapes frustration at the mortal population by the Council. They 
constantly. have as much right to it as anyone, they believe, and the 

mortal tourists have forced the Council to meet elsewhere 
Runa Tryggvisdottir to keep their privacy.

Seven feet tall, long-limbed, and excruciatingly thin, The Autumn Lag in particular points to this sad 
Rúna is the most accomplished programmer and comput- state of affairs, Iceland’s heart and soul turned into a taw-
er expert among the Council of Elves. As a member of the dry spectacle for visiting masses, as a sign of the times. 
Spring Lag, she constantly argues in favor of integrating Þingvellir, they say, is proof that Iceland has lost itself and 
more technology into the council’s workings. She’s abra- is on its way to the grave as a nation. Might as well move 
sive and arrogant, and does not do any physical labor if the Alþingi to Geneva and get it over with, they grumble.
she can avoid it (“I’m so thin and fragile, you just want The University of Iceland
to break me!”) despite being no less strong or sturdy than 
most elves. She does not get along with Krzysztof at all. While most Icelanders think of elves as mainly con-

Rúna has been known to dabble in illicit activities, cerned with wilderness regions, the Spring Lag actually 
but it goes further than most people expect. She is in- holds the University of Iceland as its most sacred place. 
volved in money laundering and fraud, and has also made Dozens of Hedgeways and trod endpoints dot the cam-
decent bank hacking foreign governments and selling pus, and many Hollows can be found in the local Hedge, 
their information. Despite being a lazy creature at heart, where members of the Spring Lag spend time in quiet and 
Rúna is fiercely loyal to her community. She’ll die for solitude while surrounded by the hallowed atmosphere of 
them if need be — she just won’t do any work for them. progress and higher learning.

When spring arrives, the Spring Lag convenes the 
Places Council for trials here at night, annoying other elves, who 

would prefer to meet more privately and comfortably in 
Hafnarhusith the safety of Hafnarhúsið. However, on this, the Spring 

Meaning “Harbor House,” Hafnarhúsið was estab- Lag will not give in — they are often pragmatic and not 
lished in the mid-20th century as a permanent headquar- overly concerned with matters of sanctity, but this place 
ters for the Council of Elves. Outside, it is a small and is genuinely holy to them, and they hold it in reverence.

The Council of Elves 285



Hard-a-Lee full moon’s shimmer on the Atlantic. The ship never even 
sailed into Ipswich Bay — only its pieces, and its water-

Ipswich, Massachusetts logged “passengers,” appeared the morning after a fierce 
Massachusetts’ North Shore is full of fishing towns. nor’easter. All was lost in the wreck, they claimed: the 

Old, New-England-style saltbox houses are both residenc- ship’s manifests, the cargo, their worldly goods, the cap-
es for the year-rounders and tourist attractions for the tain and crew. The people of Ipswich took them in, and 
summer crowds. Ipswich, founded in 1634, boasts poets helped them get back on their feet. And so, the fae came 
and politicians among its notable citizens. Visitors come to the fishing town.
to stroll through the John Whipple House for a glimpse of Not only did they live and work among the mortals, 
life in colonial America, sun themselves at Crane Beach, the fae took human lovers and spouses. The descendants 
or get their fill of fresh seafood at any of several clam of those families tend the mines to this day, venturing un-
shacks. While many of the town’s permanent residents derwater or deep within the Hedge to coax rare fae-tinged 
now commute into Boston for work, the fishing industry minerals and metals from the earth.
is still alive and well. More than a few families have been Such substances attract attention. 
going out on the sea for generations. As trinkets and tools made from the faerie metals 

A significant portion of those seafarers aren’t entirely spread beyond the North Shore — through the colonies 
human. and, eventually, the states; to other parts of the world via 

In caves and coves along the shore, fae-blooded ship and train and air; to other worlds via trods and other 
people — whose Masks hide webbed fingers and gills magical means — the collectors began to appear. Wiz-
and scales from mortal sight — mine the earth and the ened Artists came seeking new materials to work with. 
Hedge for faerie metals, which abound in the area. The Elemental Helldivers offered their skills in the mines in 
changeling freehold of Hard-a-Lee does regular business exchange for somewhere safe to call home. Fairest com-
with them, trading for the precious material and acting as missioned pieces that matched their own beauty. 
both brokers and bouncers when outsiders come seeking Like many poorly kept secrets, the proliferation of the 
the treasure. Though the freehold’s founders were locals, metal drew more dangerous parties to Ipswich as well. A 
a high percentage of the Lost currently in town started delicate crown, woven from thin strands of the metal and 
out as summer people, taken by the Gentry in the midst adorned with seashells, was gifted to a fine lady of the 
of their vacations. Gentry. Exactly who presented it to her remains a subject 

Historiarum Obscura of much speculation, but the result was an influx of the 
True Fae and their emissaries venturing forth from Arca-

Though white colonists gave them names like “As- dia to acquire more of the precious metal. 
rai” and “knucker,” taken from European folklore, these The presence of the Gentry in Ipswich has, over the 
piscatory fae were known to the Agawam tribe long be- years, become akin to hurricane warnings for mortals: a 
fore John Winthrop the Younger sailed in on the Arbella. real and imminent danger, but one that’s survivable, and 
Chief Masconomet’s people traded with the fae, though whose damage can be mitigated with the proper prepara-
little remains of the items crafted during that era. tion. In 1873, the freehold of Hard-a-Lee formed as just 

Stories from English colonists in the late 1600s tell of such a precaution. The freehold takes its name from a 
kelpies lurking about the shores of the Ipswich River, selk- sailing term describing the command to steer into the 
ies splashing about in Plum Island Sound, or beautiful As- wind. The changelings who made their homes in and 
rai women leaving their cold, cold handprints on enam- around Ipswich, who survived their durances and made 
ored fishermen’s arms. Most of these tales were shrugged it out of the Hedge, were damned if they were going to 
off as superstition, but it didn’t deter curious sorts from flee to avoid their former captors. Nor would they allow 
lurking about on the shore, hoping to stumble across a anyone to be retaken. 
selkie’s discarded skin. The sea shanties that record Hard-a-Lee’s history 

As the town expanded, keeping themselves separate sing of the changelings and the Asrai banding together 
and hidden from the humans became nearly impossible. to rebuff Huntsmen who’d come demanding tribute. The 
Far simpler, realized the faerie miners, to hide in plain result was a bargain with the Gentry: In exchange for a 
sight as townsfolk. But how would a passel of fishlike fae regular delivery of the metal, the True Fae would take no 
take up residence in such a small town without being no- servants from among the residents of Ipswich — human 
ticed? or Asrai. 

With a shipwreck, of course. But there’s always a loophole.
They crafted their vessel from driftwood and lashed Hard-a-Lee was still a relatively small freehold until the 

it together with seaweed. The sails were made from the mid-1900s heralded a rise in tourism. An influx of summer 

286 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



visitors meant the Gentry had new victims they could claim ••••	 Automatically succeed on attempts to break 
— after all, the summer people weren’t permanent residents, through mundane barriers or otherwise deal with 
and therefore weren’t protected under the terms of the bar- inanimate impediments.
gain. The Queen of Summer Tides has tried to renegotiate •••••	 Enemies of lower Wyrd than your character take a 
the deal in years past, but to no avail. Now, many of the free- two-die penalty to attacks against her.
hold’s members are people who were taken while their fami-
lies visited on vacation. They returned through the Hedge The Court of Ebb Tide
to find their loved ones long gone, back to their homes, jobs, 
and lives. Many of them wait to see if their families return With the tide on its way out, the beaches fill again. 
the next summer, only to find that, when they do, a fetch has Families spread their blankets further, children adorn 
taken their place. their castles with drizzles of wet sand. It’s the calm after 

the storm, now that the waves aren’t so tall.
The Tide Courts When the Court of Ebb Tide rules, quiet reigns. 

For mortals and changelings alike, life in Ipswich de- Though the Court of Tides doesn’t always hew to the 
pends on the sea. The tides not only affect the fishing indus- seasons, Ebb Tide Queens often take to their thrones in 
try, but also when and how they can access the mines full of the latest part of the summer, when cool breezes on the 
faerie metal. For changelings whose powers don’t allow them heels of hot ones signal autumn’s approach, and when 
to breathe underwater, the caves are off limits when the tide some quality of the sunset from mid-August on fills tour-
comes in. Those with webbed fingers and gills, however, may ists with nostalgia for the summer even as they’re still on 
join the Asrai at work even when the mines are flood with vacation. Ebb Tide courtiers are often matter-of-fact, ap-
dark, salty water. Hard-a-Lee swore oaths to the tides for fair proaching bargains and proposals with a skeptical eye.
winds, abundant catches, and, when the situation calls for it, Many changelings join this court when they first 
crashing waves and rip currents. escape Arcadia. The sense of summer just out of reach 

reminds them of the lives they once led, and offers hope 
The Court of High Tide that they’ll return to those lives when the tide returns, 

The waves pound away at the shore, destroying carefully even though that’s rarely the case. 
built sandcastles, washing forgotten sandals and buckets out Mantle Effects: The Mantle of an Ebb Tide courtier 
to sea. When the tide comes in, land yields to water, and evokes a feeling of calm. The sound of waves lapping gen-
when it recedes, it takes a bit of the beach with it. tly on the shore follows them.

The freehold views the Court of High Tide as the Your character gains a Glamour point whenever he 
strongest of the Ipswich Courts. Those who swear fealty successfully talks an individual down from a fight.
to it are forces of nature themselves, with strong person- •	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
alities and implacable wills. Some of its members confront dots on mundane rolls to persuade someone based 
their foes like strong waves, knocking down anyone who on shared past experiences.
dares stand in their paths. Others prefer to wait, working 
their will so subtly their opponents don’t realize they’ve ••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
lost until the tide’s already on its way out. Changelings dots on mundane rolls to defuse a tense group 
who join this court are often the first line of defense situation.
against the True Fae and their minions. •••	 Once per chapter, you may reroll a mundane roll 

Mantle Effects: The Mantle of a High Tide courtier to negotiate a deal or pledge and choose which 
evokes the smell of salt and the cries of seagulls. Warm sea result to keep.
breezes stir the air around her.

••••	 Increase your character’s effective Composure by 
Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she one when using it to contest mundane or supernatu-

opens someone’s last Door in Social maneuvering (p. 191). ral attempts to make your character lose her cool.
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle •••••	 E nemies take a penalty equal to your character’s 

dots on mundane rolls to inflict Tilts on opponents. Mantle dots to their Initiative bonuses.
••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 

dots on mundane rolls to undermine someone’s The Court of Low Tide
authority or respect among their peers. The water is as far from shore as it ever gets, the sea 

•••	 Once per chapter, you may reroll a mundane roll fled for a time. Clams push toward the surface for a bit of 
that uses a Power Attribute and choose which re- air, only to be dug up and cooked for a delicious dinner. 
sult to keep. The sands lay uncovered; debris left behind by the tide 

dries in the sun. 

Hard-a-Lee 287



The Court of Low Tide attracts changelings of a ••	 G ain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
gentler disposition, but equating “gentle” with “weak” is dots on mundane rolls to make friends in a new 
unwise. Lost who join this court are adept at digging up place he’s never been.
secrets and exposing them, bringing down their foes with- •••	 Once per chapter, you may spend a Willpower 
out ever having to confront them in person. This court point to grant your character additional dots of 
also handles the majority of the dealings with the Asrai, the Etiquette Merit (p. 122) equal to her Mantle 
keeping track of expeditions to the mines and managing dots, to a maximum of five, for the scene.
sales of the metal drawn from them.

Mantle Effects: The Mantles of Low Tide courtiers of- ••••	 Once per chapter, you may reroll a mundane roll 
ten manifest as a briny seaweed scent on the wind. They that uses a Finesse Attribute and choose which 
leave the impression of footprints in wet sand in their wake. result to keep.

Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she •••••	 Once per chapter, you may spend a Willpower 
successfully uses secrets to foil someone’s plans. point in place of Glamour to use portaling (p. 109).
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle Faces

dots on mundane rolls to investigate someone’s 
dirty secrets. Lacey O’Donnell

••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Man- O’Donnell’s Fine Arts is a tiny shop tucked away on 
tle dots on mundane rolls to blackmail or coerce a side street, but it’s one of the first places changelings get 
someone using information she dug up herself. to know when they stumble through the Hedge. Lacey 

•••	 Regain a Willpower point whenever your charac- knows everyone in town, and if you hang out at the shop 
ter definitively profits from her position as a go- long enough, they’ll wander in eventually. She keeps sev-
between for other parties. eral folding chairs behind the counter to accommodate 

the impromptu gatherings that happen every few days, 
••••	 All clues your character turns up in an investiga- and a pot of tea is always ready for guests. Changeling art-

tion gain an additional element (p. 195). ists who don’t want to handle selling their creations dis-
•••••	 Another character with a Leveraged Condition (p. play their wares in Lacey’s store, and a cut of the proceeds 

342) that your character inflicted must capitulate to goes to help newly escaped Lost get back on their feet. 
two of her demands before they can resolve it. Lacey’s been the Ebb Tide Queen nearly a quarter of 

a century, and she’s hardly aged a day. 
The Court of Flood Tide

Just as the tide goes out, it comes in again. The sea Old Bartholomew
swells and encroaches, sandbars disappear, and the beach- To hear him tell it, the silver thread connecting this 
es feel more crowded as sunbathers are pushed closer to- craggy-faced Helldiver to his Keeper snapped when a 
gether. Where Ebb Tide is the calm after the storm, Flood whale swallowed him. He came out of the Hedge covered 
Tide is the feeling of clouds gathering beforehand and the in krill and never looked back. Nowadays he can be found 
air growing heavy with the promise of rain. out in the mines, coaxing bright ores from the earth like 

Members of the Court of Flood Tide are perpetually he did during his durance, but on his own terms. It’s hard 
engaged. Whether it’s planning gatherings for the other to tell which of his features are his Elemental mien, and 
courts, checking up on the newly freed Lost, or following which are simply years of salt and wind making their mark. 
up on the freehold’s needs, these changelings always have Changelings who make their living in the caves often 
a full calendar. Other courts joke that when the Hunts- start out under Old Bart’s tutelage. He knows the best 
men come looking for them, the Lost of the Flood Tide spots for ore, how long you can keep working a vein until 
are simply too busy to get caught. The real truth is that the tide comes in, and where the Hedge encroaches upon 
the Flood Tide courtiers never stop running. the mines. No one’s ever been lost on his watch.

Mantle Effects: The Mantle for a Flood Tide court-
ier is a sharp spring breeze and the creak of boats against Aunt Peg
their moorings. Peg’s never had family. Not a human one, anyway, but 

Your character gains a Glamour point whenever a plan that’s all right. She’s adopted the changelings of Hard-a-
he built as equipment (p. 196) goes off without a hitch. Lee to make up for it. Peg’s older than anyone’s guessed, 

one of the last full-blooded Asrai left in Ipswich. Her 
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle memories get patchy the farther back she thinks, and any-

dots on mundane rolls to find a safehouse or shel- thing that came before the Agawam people is lost. Mostly, 
ter away from home.

288 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



she doesn’t bother, much more interested in the world as go home, the middle school gymnasium comes to life once 
it is now. more. The market hosts a taste-off of its own, with chowder 

She’s an older woman, weak-chinned and whiskered, recipes far more daring than those available during the day. 
more fishlike the closer you get. Her body bears the scars Lacey O’Donnell hosts a stall here. Even the cloth 
of Huntsmen’s swords, blades she caught defending the she drapes over her table is adorned with designs in thread 
Lost under her protection. Rumor has it the last time a made from the faerie metal, and catches the eyes of brows-
Huntsman came to town, he turned tail the moment he ing market-goers. Artisans from Hard-a-Lee are welcome 
caught sight of Peg bearing down on him. to show their pieces at her stall, though all bargains are 

She often appears at O’Donnell’s, both socializing their own to make if they wish to barter.
and standing guard. Crane Wildlife Refuge
The Shipwright Away from the bustle of the town lies the Crane Wild-

Danny Doyle came out of the Hedge three years ago. life Refuge. The area boasts both beaches and grassy fields, 
He’s not yet 30, though his hair’s gone white and wispy. and is a quieter, protected patch of land. Even though it’s also 
His durance was short, as far as he recalls — surely no a destination for summer tourists, many changelings come 
more than a year or two. Yet when last he saw Ipswich, here for a place to get away when the beaches get crowded. 
Massachusetts was a colony. Catching up to the modern Seeing carefree families on vacation can be hard for the 
world has been a slow process for him, one he’s still work- Lost, especially the ones whose Keepers pulled them away 
ing on. Some days are easier than others, and often it’s too from their own. The refuge, it turns out, isn’t just for wildlife, 
overwhelming. He keeps to himself as best he can, living but also for those who need a place to wander and regroup.
on a fishing boat most of the year and ferrying miners to 
the caves. In the off season, he repairs ships for the lo- Castle Hill
cals, bringing centuries-old techniques to modern crafts. Castle Hill has two meanings for the locals. It might 
For the right price, he’ll take a group of changelings out reference the drumlin formation at the edge of the land 
onto the ocean, to a spot where the water gives way to the — a shape resembling a half-buried egg that many believe 
Hedge, and they can pull strange fish up from the depths. once was (or still is) a faerie mound. It is also the loca-

tion of the Crane Estate, the mansion that sits atop the 
Places mound. Both are significant to the changelings of Hard-

a-Lee as meeting places, ritual sites, and on occasion, the 
The Mines scenes of some really great parties. After all, the summer 

In caverns hidden in the rocky hills inland; in coves people don’t get to have all the fun.
whose entrances appear when the tide goes out, or whose 
mouths require a long-held breath and a deep dive to Tumbledown  
reach; in still others that require a trip through the Hedge, Market
lie rich veins of metals human smiths have only dreamed 
of: bright as silver, strong as steel, light as gossamer. Ores The French Market, New Orleans, 
mined here are used to make armor and daggers as often Louisiana; Large Flea Markets across the 
as they’re fashioned into rings and crowns, and any piece United States
crafted from the faerie metals is highly valuable. 

Running alongside the Mississippi River at the edge 
While the early Asrai knew the locations of every of the French Quarter is New Orleans’ French Market. It’s 

mine, some of the entrances have been lost over the cen- part flea market, part souvenir shop, and part art show. 
turies. In some cases, the Hedge has shifted, denying ac- Tourists and residents alike browse the market’s wares. 
cess to shafts that meander through it. In others, simple Anything you might need is tucked away in a stall, from 
human expansion hid them as the town grew and bull- T-shirts to spices to jewelry.
dozed over the sites. Rumor has it you can still reach one 
such entrance beneath the Ipswich Inn, provided you can The French Market is also home to a Goblin Mar-
get inside undetected. ket so sprawling that it’s broken the bounds of not only 

the alleys of shops along the river, but New Orleans itself. 
Ipswich Chowderfest  Used to be, the only way to enter the Goblin Market of 
and Bazaar Tumbledown was to know the secret entrance at the back 

of the French Market, near Barracks Street. Nowadays, it 
To tourists, the mid-October Chowderfest and Bazaar has grown so large that you can find trods in just about 

is all about the “chowdah” and the wares on sale from local any large flea market in the United States that wind up in 
vendors. For the Lost, it’s also the annual Goblin Market. Tumbledown.  
After the chowder tasting is done and the human families 

Tumbledown Market 289



The freehold of Fair Coin began as a motley that 
traded frequently in the market. Its members are mostly 
composed of New Orleans residents, but as Tumbledown’s 
borders have spread, its changeling residents have ac-
cepted more out-of-towners into the fold. Tumbledown is 
always open for business. It’s exhilarating and exhausting, 
a nonstop carnival even in the dead of night. Someone’s 
always willing to make a deal.

Historiarum Obscura
Native Americans established a trading post along 

the Mississippi River well before Europeans colonized 
the area. The market’s location shifted occasionally, but 
stayed in the general vicinity. In 1791, the space that was 
once known as the Meat Market — the only place in the 
French Quarter where meat was allowed to be sold — be-
came officially known as the French Market. It was largely 
an open-air market at first, with structures added nearly 
constantly over the next 200 years. The French Market 
stretches six blocks, from Café du Monde in the market’s 
original location, down to the flea-market stalls across 
from the New Orleans Mint downriver.

The Goblin Market of Tumbledown began as a few stalls 
tucked in among the mundane vendors. A few enterprising 
traders sold goblin fruit alongside the everyday fruit sellers. 
Careful listeners might hear the details of hammering out a 
pledge among the humans haggling for a deal. 

As the French Market expanded, so did its goblin 
counterpart. More stalls popped up. More hobgoblins left 
the Hedge to hawk their wares. Shoppers came from far 
and wide to hunt for rare items, so many that the sellers 
began hiring Ogres to guard the Barracks Street entrance, 
letting only a handful of buyers through at a time to keep 
the humans from noticing. 

In the late 1800s, a change rippled through Tumble-
down. Where for decades, travelers came to the Gob-
lin Market, suddenly the Goblin Market came to them. 
The spaces between stalls in markets across the country 
opened out into the humid air of New Orleans, the smell 
of the Mississippi and the lilt of Creole. Trods that had 
been closed off or forgotten opened up, their roads lead-
ing to Tumbledown. The market itself expanded, sprawl-
ing far beyond six blocks in the French Quarter. Not only 
was there room for more vendors, Tumbledown became a 
small town all its own, with merchants and visitors pitch-
ing tents on the outskirts. Over the years, permanent 
structures took their places, housing inns, taverns, and 
storefronts. Most of them echo French Quarter architec-
ture, even though they reside in the Hedge.  

Theories explaining exactly what happened abound, 
but not a one has been proven true. One rumor tells of 
a massive contract negotiated with an embodiment of 
Commerce. Another suggests a fae merchant opened the 
trods in a burst of Glamour and was never seen again. An 

290 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



old Wizened, who spent all his years studying the Hedge, Members of the Court of Coins are the most straight-
insisted until his dying day that the Hedge itself decided forward of the freehold’s Lost, preferring to deal in specif-
Tumbledown should exist, and so it was. The proprietor of ics and absolutes. They rarely hide behind ruses, want-
the Sans Merci tavern hosts storytelling contests twice a ing to deal straight with anyone who cares to trade with 
year, seeking the best telling of Tumbledown’s origin — it them, and expecting the same in return. 
doesn’t matter if it’s true, only that it entertains. Mantle Effects: The Mantle of a Coin Courtier car-

New Orleans has other freeholds, but Tumbledown ries with it the sound of coins shaken in deep pockets, or 
holds itself separate. The freehold of Fair Coin started with bills counted out from a drawer. They smell of copper and 
a motley whose members frequented the French Market. paper and ink.
Elaine Beaudoin’s family worked the same stall for genera- Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she 
tions, selling fresh seafood and small bites to hungry brows- successfully hunts down someone who owes her some-
ers. Two years after her Keeper stole her away, she returned thing and gets it.
to find her fetch bantering with her favorite customers. A 
nearby merchant offered her a handkerchief to catch her •	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
tears, and it took a few moments before she realized the dots on mundane rolls to persuade someone to 
handkerchief was made of dream-silk, and her companion make an oath (p. 212).
had the face of a cat. She took a job with the silk seller, only ••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
a few stalls down from her family’s, and traded there unseen dots to mundane rolls to figure out whether some-
for months before she fell in with her motley. one is trying to cheat her.

They were all changelings from New Orleans, several •••	 Once per chapter, you may spend a Willpower 
of them scouring the Goblin Market on a regular basis point to grant your character additional dots of 
for Contracts that might help protect them or their fami- the Resources Merit (p. 124) equal to her Mantle 
lies — even though those families had forgotten them, or dots, to a maximum of five, for the scene.
never knew they were gone.

When Tumbledown expanded, Elaine was there. ••••	 Once per story, reduce your character’s Goblin 
The influx of new customers, many of them Lost them- Debt by his Mantle rating.
selves, meant a slew of people who needed guidance and •••••	 Once per scene, you may spend a Willpower point to 
protection. When someone desperately seeks an item, learn the current heart’s desire of any character present.
Tumbledown’s pull can be overwhelming. Many shop-
pers find themselves wandering the stalls, unsure of how The Court of Barter
they arrived but certain the answers to their problems are The farmer will let you sleep in her barn if you brush 
hanging from a rack or twinkling in the starlight. The the horses. The hitchhiker tells stories to the driver who 
freehold of Fair Coin formed to help those travelers, to takes her from Boston to Albany, keeping him awake and 
keep changelings from bartering away their hearts, their entertained as the long miles pass. For a week’s worth of 
dreams, or their freedoms for deals that don’t balance out. the Fairest’s beauty, the hag will help her find her long-

The Traders’ Courts lost love. People have bartered since time immemorial, 
trading their surplus to those with needed skills, and let-

Currency in a Goblin Market takes several forms, ting their trash transmute into another’s treasure.
most of it heavily dependent on what the seller wants and Changelings who join the Court of Barter realize 
what the buyer is willing to trade away. Coins, services, that everything has value, even if it’s hard to see. It’s this 
secrets, a favor to be collected later, or a dark deed done court that takes in most of the newly escaped Lost, guid-
now, all are fair and valid trades. Fair Coin’s loyalty is to ing them away from the stalls in Tumbledown where less 
transactions of all types. The bargains don’t have to be scrupulous merchants sense their desperation for informa-
honorable, but they do need to be honored. tion, or vengeance, or word of lost families. The Barter 
The Court of Coins Court makes itself available to witness bargains, letting 

the entrants know whether their deal is fair or not. While 
The simplest transactions are completed with cold, this is generally met with approval, some sellers take it as 

hard cash, though that cash might more closely resemble an insult that their clients distrust them so openly.
lost doubloons or pennies gathered from the depths of a Mantle Effects: The Mantle for a Barterer manifests 
specific wishing fountain in Poughkeepsie. Coins have a in even tones and calming scents. They leave drips of 
specific value, and a trader can count them and bite them sealing wax in their wake.
to test their realness. Change also jingles in a pocket or 
purse, signifying to anyone listening for its clinking, clat- Your character gains a Glamour point whenever he suc-
tering song that the carrier has riches to spend. cessfully intercedes on someone else’s behalf in an unfair deal.

Tumbledown Market 291



•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle ••••	 Once per chapter, you may accept a point of Gob-
dots on mundane rolls to read someone’s situation lin Debt to pawn off an obligation from a bargain 
from their behavior. onto another changeling without being personally 

••	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle involved.
dots on mundane rolls to make deals and agree- •••••	 Once per chapter, you may reroll any mundane 
ments in Tumbledown. action that would pay off a favor your character 

•••	 Regain a Willpower point whenever you resolve owes and choose which result to keep.
the Oathbreaker Condition (p. 343), or when The Court of Shady Deals
someone else resolves it due to your influence or 
meddling. The gentle-natured man would never do harm to 

another living being, but oh, how his neighbor snores at 
••••	 Once per chapter, when the Storyteller spends night. If only someone would pinch his nose shut. Sure, 

your Goblin Debt to impose a Condition, you may you don’t have the Snowdrop Crown in your backpack, 
replace the Condition with another of the same but if it were to find its way there, and then to Tumble-
general type (mental, physical, emotional, etc.). down, well…don’t you want to know if your daughter still 

•••••	 Once per chapter, you may ask the Storyteller if dreams about her father? What’s one more throat cut, af-
someone your character is dealing with has left a ter all the lives your Keeper made you take?
loophole or catch that could disadvantage him in Members of the Court of Shady Deals are willing to 
a deal. take on the jobs most others would reject outright. They 

do the hard jobs, the ones that require cold logic, steady 
The Court of Favors hands, and no aversion to blood. They do what’s neces-

Jill never carries cash, but she’s got great credit. Give sary. They’re not sorry. The Lost who swear to this court 
her a few days and she’ll make it up to you. If the Pie Man are also the freehold’s defenders. If the Huntsmen come 
parts with one of his goblin-fruit tarts, Ash promises she’ll near, they know where to hide the bodies.
bring him the finest berries from a secret shrub in the Mantle Effects: Light dims around these courtiers, and 
Hedge only she can find. Favors are a currency built on the sound of knives rasping on whetstone follows them.
risk and trust on the parts of both seller and buyer. The Your character gains a Glamour point whenever he 
seller trusts they’ll recoup their investment; the buyer successfully hides evidence of a dirty deed when someone 
trusts that, when the bill comes due, they’re not forced to comes looking for it.
pay more than what their purchase was worth. 

•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
The Lost who swear to the Court of Favors tend to dots on mundane rolls to pick a lock or break into 

be shrewd listeners and smooth talkers. They promise just a place he doesn’t belong.
enough, and know when to walk away from a bad deal. 
Whatever it is their business partner needs, the change- ••	 G ain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 
ling knows a guy who can get it for him. Their networks dots on mundane rolls to escape a sticky situation 
are vast, and they rarely tolerate oathbreakers in their unnoticed.
ranks. •••	 Your character may use Goblin Contracts with-

Mantle Effects: Favorsworn Mantles carry with out incurring Goblin Debt a number of times per 
them the sound of bells tolling or hands clasping to seal chapter equal to his Mantle rating.
a bargain. 

••••	 You may spend a Willpower point to ignore all the 
Your character gains a Glamour point whenever she effects of the Oathbreaker Condition for one turn.

makes good on a significant promise she made within the 
same chapter. •••••	 O nce per chapter, you may reroll a surprise attack 

roll and choose which result to keep.
•	 Gain bonus dice equal to your character’s Mantle 

dots on mundane rolls to convince someone to Faces
make a bargain (p. 214).

••	 Gain the benefits of the Fixer Merit (p. 122) even Wren Lamontaigne
if your character doesn’t qualify. Wren Lamontaigne was born and raised in the 

•••	 Other characters take a dice penalty equal to your Crescent City. She preferred Decatur to Bourbon, could 
character’s Mantle dots to mundane rolls to swin- tell the time by how loudly the Preservation Hall crowd 
dle her or lie to her about a deal or promise. was clapping, and never, ever, wanted to leave. She was 

taken at 19, one minute listening to a tour guide tell his 

292 Chapter Six: All the Kingdoms of the Earth



enraptured crowd about the ghosts in the Beauregard Places
House, the next tearing through the Hedge, bits of herself 
catching on the Thorns. Dutch Alley

Her Keeper made her tell stories until she was hoarse, In New Orleans, Dutch Alley is a row of art galleries 
then tell more. Wren doesn’t have much of a voice left, and exhibits, the art created by human hands. Tumbledown’s 
but she knows every tale there is to tell. The Lost seek Dutch Alley boasts more unusual pieces, many of them made 
her out in Tumbledown and offer her tea and honey to by local changeling artists. Some are works stolen from Keep-
soothe her ragged throat. In return, she tells them stories: ers’ palaces, or from their jewelry boxes. The paintings boast 
their own. colors impossible to reproduce with mundane pigments, and 

Charlotte Wake sculptures may once have been alive.  

Charlotte was rarely a good girl. If an elder said The Sans Merci Tavern
“don’t,” she heard “I dare you.” No Trespassing signs were In the middle of a long day of shopping and bargain-
gilded invitations. The French Market at night, after the ing, travelers may wish to sit down and grab a bite to eat. 
stalls had closed? She could hardly resist. That first night, The Sans Merci has stood for over 100 years, built after 
she wandered the empty rows, peeking beneath dropcloths Tumbledown’s expansion. The chefs cater to both change-
and pretending to sell the wares to her imaginary friends. ling and faerie palates, offering pints of ale and thimbles 
At 10 years old, she was the queen of the market — until of newborn tears side by side on the menu. The Tumble-
the night she snuck in through the Barracks Street gate, down Players and other musicians stop in to sing for their 
and found herself farther from home than her imagina- supper and hear the latest goings-on. The proprietor, a 
tion had ever carried her. It was fun at first, some of the slender, tattooed man who’d look right at home in any 
vendors as fanciful as anything she’d ever read in her fairy bar on Rue Decatur, goes only by the name of Jack. As a 
tale collections. But then the Dusk Witch found her, and game, he offers a reward for anyone who can guess his last 
put her to work. Charlotte served the Dusk Witch for sev- name — one guess per patron per night — but it’s been a 
en years, until Fair Coin found her and set her free. Now century, and no one’s hit upon it. 
she runs with them, acting as their errand girl and wreak-
ing small havoc on the Dusk Witch’s stall. Cafe du Monde
The Pie Man As far as you can get from the Barracks Street en-

trance and still be in the French Market is the 24-hour 
One of the draws of any Goblin Market worth its salt coffee and beignet stand, Café du Monde. It’s a tourist 

is the goblin fruit vendor. The Pie Man puts them all to attraction in New Orleans, selling squares of fried dough 
shame. No one’s ever seen him bake, but every morning covered in powdered sugar, and strong chicory coffee. It’s 
racks upon racks of fresh pastries and tarts fill his stall, a place many of the Lost go for quiet moments away from 
their fillings made of goblin fruits of every kind. Some- the Market. They’re surrounded by humans at all hours, 
thing in the dough or his technique enhances their ef- and when you feel your Clarity start slipping away from 
fects. He refuses to share his secrets. too many encounters with hobgoblins and horrors, a good 

The best pastries are gone within minutes of him put- dose of excited tourists and jaded locals can set you back 
ting up his awning, so changelings who want the most to whatever your normal is.
potent fruits are wise to arrive at Tumbledown early.

The Exchange
The Tumbledown Players Not everyone carries the proper currency with them 

What’s a market without wandering musicians? The when they reach Tumbledown. Some come bearing braids of 
Tumbledown Players are a roving band, who range about their true love’s hair, only to find the merchant’s had enough 
the market hearing the latest gossip and weaving it into of that and now wants the howl of a briarwolf in a green glass 
their songs. They serve as both rumor mill and town cri- bottle. Rather than going home empty-handed, market-goers 
ers. Membership in the band rotates, and it doesn’t always stop by the Exchange to see if they can make a swap. 
consist only of changelings. If a hobgoblin can carry a The Exchange doesn’t look too impressive on first 
tune or keep time, they’ve been known to join the ranks glance. Boxes overflowing with what appears to be junk 
now and again. pile atop one another, their contents spilling out onto the 

It’s said the players can also manipulate behaviors dusty ground. Cardboard produce boxes sit beside milk 
with their music, playing songs that make people more crates, and steam trunks with broken hinges lie open next 
likely to buy, or linger at a stall long enough for the shop- to them. A pair of badger-faced sisters handle the transac-
keeper to make the right offer. tions, sometimes arguing in hushed tones about the val-

ues and exchange rates of the items in question. 

Tumbledown Market 293



Part VII

Katrina
The sky cracked open, the surface of the water boiled, and the man with a leather jacket full of stars 

glitched up to the roof of the building. And for several long minutes, no one followed. He wiped the flesh from 
his wet, black hands and shook the blood from his bones and waited, impatiently, for the story to begin.

The red one will be first by a heartbeat, he thought, with her backwards palms and long, straight hair. 
She wants to be the one who stands between people like him and the fragile world. Then her co-conspirator, 
matched in form but not substance, who will struggle to put the wall of her body between her foolhardy sister 
and himself. 

Is that thundering their feet on the stairs, or the borrowed blood in his ears?
The serpent would rather hide, and the hind can’t tell which way to run. The prey’s instinctive urge to 

flee after discovering their Huntsman softly breathing the same stale air. No reason he can’t collect more than 
one bounty while waiting them out, though. The contract is flexible, and rewards initiative.

“You know it’s just toying with us, right?” Adita said to Wendy’s hastily assembled army. “They can’t 
even really be killed this side of the Hedge. It’s probably just waiting to catch as many of us at once as it 
can.” She shivered. “A glut of souls to take back with it.”

“We live here. It’s not like we can just pull up a whole apartment building worth of changelings and 
their kids to go hide and wait for it to pick us off one by one,” Preeti said. Once upon a time, she was the 
gentler twin. Sometime in their durance, the righteous anger got wrung right out of Adita and poured into 
her. “Even if it doesn’t stay gone, it’ll give us a chance to prepare a little for the next round.”

“And as one of the kids who lives here, please. I can’t remember much of anything before Wendy 
saved us, but I know this is my first real home. I want to stay. I want to help.” Michael and June seemed 
to be trying extra hard to look angelic and brave. They looked so young that it broke my heart. 

“How do any of you even understand what it wants? It’s just a mouthful of bees and static. I can feel 
it pressing in my ears and behind my eyes, but there aren’t any words.” Lucy was rallying faster than I 
thought she would. Grounding me and Aimee seemed to have done her some good, too.

“What is she still doing here? This has nothing to do with her.” Silvia doesn’t much socialize with the 
normals after those ghost kids of hers got harassed by some dude who thought he was hot shit for being 
able to see them in the first place. I think she still resents Wendy a little for getting to live here with all 
those swan babies.

“Well, it does a little bit. She’s, um, married to my fetch. And she’s basically defenseless. I can’t just 
send her out into the night with him wandering around looking to spite us.” Oh, Aimee.

“Doesn’t even matter if we’re the dream team, we’re the ones Wendy got. So, what’s the plan?” I try 
to stay out of team planning. I’m more of an underbrush girl.

“Well, I didn’t know that you couldn’t actually kill him, which complicates things.”



“It’s not that we can’t kill it exactly. It’s just that it wouldn’t matter if we tried here.” Adita twisted 
and untwisted her braid around her wrist. “They’re only kind of real here. You need to find their hearts 
to actually stop them, buried somewhere in the woods around and between the Arcadian estates.” She 
shrugged. “So there’s barely any point. We tear it to pieces and it’ll only come back knowing how many 
pieces we were able to shred it into.”

“I dunno, I feel like tearing him to pieces would be pretty therapeutic, all things considered.” Pre-
eti said it, but there were more agreements than demurrals. Maybe we could at least scare him off for a 
while. Long enough to get this place hidden properly. With so many courts represented, surely someone 
could help us figure that out.

“I’m not the only one who’s noticed that he’s almost constantly discharging electricity, right?” Some 
hesitant nods, and some thoughtful ones. “Remember that chunk of the roof that’s just been a giant metal 
plate for six months? Let’s stick him there with his own current, and Preeti can tear him to pieces.” 

Wendy looked at the swan babies. “I know I can’t keep you here. And I won’t make you claim that 
you’d stay away from the fighting, when I know you want to be there. But think about your siblings. They 
need you, too.”

An army can’t be quiet, especially not when trudging up an access staircase, and filing out one at a 
time. But numbers are going to help us more than stealth. That kind of trick only works the once.

He felt them under his skin, even before the first strike caught him in place. Their infectious disloyalty 
seeping through his fingertips. The urge to run and find his heart. To go home. The hunter couldn’t be dis-
tracted from his hunt. And yet somehow, the hunter was distracted. And in his moment of startlement, the 
red twins pulled him in twain.

Adita is crying, but Preeti is too pleased with herself to be much comfort. Too fragile to move into 
her life’s future. Too ready to storm the Hedge gates and tear up any threat to motley or freehold she can 
imagine.

When did Wendy get so good at comforting people, at getting our attention, at treating our breaks and 
sprains and the thousand indignities that changeling flesh is heir to? I think she’s a little wasted as a stay-
at-home parent.

Lucy and Aimee are trying to work out custody of James’s life. I don’t think she quite believes that 
Aimee really doesn’t want to steal back into her old life, evicting her “real” husband. Aimee just wants 
him to keep being good to their parents. No one knows how to tell him, or if they should. If they could 
live with the things they said to each other on the way to this moment. If either of them could forgive the 
other. The conversation skidded to a halt. So we sat in silence.

I don’t know that any of it was really forgivable. I don’t know how you would even ask. The weight 
of too many memories, and not enough time. The rain took the place of words. Wind slowing where we 
might have apologized, trees sighing where we might have forgiven.






“Everything that you wanted I have done. You cowered before me, I was frightening. I have 
reordered time. I have turned the world upside down, and I have done it all for you! I am ex-

hausted from living up to your expectations of me. Isn’t that generous?”
Terry Jones, Labyrinth (1986)

Changeling: The Lost, and by extension all ro- Setting the Stage
leplaying games, are descendants of the oral storytell-
ing tradition. Some small differences make themselves A chronicle is the tale the Storyteller and the players 
immediately obvious — for example, instead of sit- tell, spun out in threads of gossamer and tears. It’s the 
ting around a literal fire, the Storyteller and players story of the player characters, their triumphs and failures, 
are sitting around a table, with character sheets, dice, their escape from the Fae and their new lives in a world 
and other accoutrements. The Storyteller provides that no longer recognizes them. While the Storyteller 
the framework for the players to build on and explore. guides the world around the characters, it is their story. 
Playing Changeling: The Lost is a collaborative effort Players need to have input into designing the plots and 
instead of a group of passive (if enthusiastic!) listeners problems their characters face throughout the chronicle. 
hanging on the words of a single narrator who is mak- If the players all built social butterflies and the Storytell-
ing all of the decisions. er’s chronicle is a combat-heavy slugfest, no one is going 

However, the themes are the same. The first fairy to have fun. 
tales were warnings: Don’t wear red near the ring of What follows is a chronicle-building tool to help Sto-
mushrooms, don’t treat outsiders unkindly, don’t step into rytellers and players set the stage for the story upon which 
the territory of things unknown without proper offerings, they’re about to embark. The word “players” refers to 
or the Fair Folk will take you away. Gentry have rules those who play the game, but it also refers to members of 
that mortals cannot comprehend, and fairy tales were an a troupe — those who take up roles and see them through 
attempt to make sense of them. all the comedy, tragedy, drama, and catharsis that is a 

Instead of merely lamenting these warnings, though, Changeling: The Lost chronicle. You can go through 
player characters are dealing with the results…and, even Setting the Stage at any point during character creation, 
better, questioning the rules they supposedly “broke.” A including beforehand or afterward. You can let the traits 
chronicle is what happens after the fairy tale, the story you choose inform your choices here, or vice versa.
that rips away the Perraultian “happily ever after” and ex- To set the stage, you need three things: themes, 
poses the seething, bloody heart underneath. props, and acts.

Setting the Stage 297



Themes
Themes are the human dramas that make your chroni- A Note on  

cle compelling. The overarching themes of Changeling: The 
Lost are beauty/agony, clarity/madness, and lost/found. In the Backstory
tension between the opposites, one finds the tale. But you’ll The Storyteller is expected to use the player 
also explore narrower, more individual themes — the Lost characters’ backstories to enrich the play 
have to deal with more immediate issues in addition to the experience. Players should communicate with 
existential question of living in the liminal space between the Storyteller about things they would like left 
humanity and Fae. Themes like “lost love,” “poverty,” and untouched — and, by the same token, things 
“hunger” could all work in a Changeling chronicle. Each they would like messed with. Storyteller torture 
might mean something different to each character. “Loy- of characters via backstory should always be 
alty,” for example, could prompt one character to protect her consensual. This is a game, after all. 
freehold at all costs, another to shelter her family even when 
they no longer claim her as kin, and a third to hide her undy-
ing fealty to her undying master in Arcadia.

Each player comes up with at least one theme she Using Props  
would like to see the chronicle explore, which doesn’t and Themes
necessarily have to pertain to her own character. The Sto- By the time you’re finished, you should have at least one 
ryteller also comes up with one or several themes. Write theme and one prop per player character, plus one or more 
these down on sticky notes, index cards, or the top row of for the Storyteller. If you end up with more, that’s fine.
a grid on a whiteboard.

Lay the themes in a row, then lay the props in a col-
Props umn perpendicular to the themes, to form a grid. Each 

player chooses the intersection of a theme and prop for 
Props are the magical phenomena with which your her character as a recurring concept for her character’s 

chronicle will contend, the fae weirdness that surrounds story. Then, each player comes up with a statement or two 
and permeates the lives of the Lost. Set pieces, places, be- describing how her character exists at the intersection of 
ings, and objects all fall under the heading of props. These these ideas and how they influence her story in a gen-
could include specific kinds of supernatural props from eral sense. For example, a Darkling at the intersection of 
this game or other Chronicles of Darkness games, like “hunger” and “Goblin Markets” might spend one or sev-
Goblin Markets, torpid vampires, or a specific token; they eral story arcs seeking a specific obsession at every Goblin 
could also include inspirations from other sources that Market she sees, hungry to find the one wonder she misses 
you like and want to incorporate into your game, like the from her durance — loathe as she is to admit it. This can 
Jersey Devil, the Bermuda Triangle, or even things that then lead to further story hooks for the character.
show up in other media.

The free spaces left over are for Storyteller characters 
Props can also be mundane objects that will show that the troupe will create together. In the final phase, below, 

up throughout the chronicle as motifs and come to mean you’ll use acts — a series of questions based on stages of the 
something more. A player might choose to associate her characters’ backgrounds — to create compelling Storyteller 
Bright One character with torches, for example, so any characters with built-in connections to the motley, and come 
scene that revolves around her includes candles, flash- up with more details about the player characters.
lights, or other small sources of bright light. Grand Prin-
cess Caesura, a lady of the Gentry who appears as a femi- The Storyteller may tweak and adjust the theme/prop 
nine form made of the absence of matter, is associated ideas as the chronicle goes along, depending on his plans 
with open doors and missing keys. for the story and the constantly unfolding consequences 

of the player characters’ actions. Players may even decide 
Anything that will strongly influence the story can to resolve or abandon the motifs as their characters evolve 

be a prop. A family curse, a bargain ill-made, a portal torn over time. The theme/prop grid isn’t there to constrain 
open, or a monarch corrupted by their own power can all the story, but rather, to help kickstart it.
be props. You can really let your imagination run wild.

As with themes, each player comes up with at least Acts
one prop she wants to have (or gain) importance in the A changeling doesn’t come into being in a vacuum. She 
chronicle; again, this doesn’t need to pertain to her own has family, friends, a life the Fae took from her, and a life 
character. Then the Storyteller does the same. As before, she’s building now. Each act below steps through part of a 
write the props down on sticky notes, index cards, or character’s backstory, helping you flesh her out as a person 
listed down the leftmost column of your whiteboard grid. and connect her to the other characters and the greater story. 

298 Chapter Seven: Tales Around the Fire



This exercise presents a lot of questions and asks for a Act Two: My Capture
lot of details. The group should feel free to skip any ques- Something had to get that changeling into the Hedge 
tions they want, or even whole acts if they like. Some play- into the first place. Something had to take her to Arcadia. 
ers prefer to let this sort of character background come up Something had to lock her into shackles of bronze and 
in play or in prologues, so don’t force it if the group would roses, forcing her to do its bidding. Use this section to 
rather hit the ground running and fill in some or all of the figure out how the changeling was stolen or seduced away.
blanks later.

Decide how the character was stolen or seduced 
Once all the players have completed the acts they away, answering the questions presented here. Then cre-

want to complete, the Storyteller can fill in the rest of ate one Storyteller character who was involved, and place 
the grid, in secret or with the group, with other important that character at an empty intersection in your grid of 
Storyteller characters he plans to introduce. themes and props. This could be the character’s Keeper, 
Act One: The Life I Lost her fetch, or someone else.

Promises: What promise was made to you while you 
All changelings were human before their Keepers were en route? Did you make deals with your kidnapper? 

took them. Fae politics pale in comparison to the net- Did anyone follow you into the Hedge as a fae-touched, 
works of family, friends, acquaintances, coworkers, petty clinging to a promise you left unfulfilled?
rivalries, romances, and other connections mortal hu-
mans have. Rare is the Lost who was taken without any Questions to Ask: Did your Keeper or its agents physi-
sort of link to other people — otherwise, why would the cally drag you off, seduce you, or deceive you? Or did you go 
Fae need to make fetches? willingly? Did you offend a True Fae somehow, or break some 

arcane rule about which you couldn’t possibly have known?
Decide who the changeling was before a UFO or in-

visible horse spirited him away, answering the questions Were you taken by a hobgoblin? Your Keeper itself? 
presented here. Then create one Storyteller character A loyalist or privateer? Did you misstep into the Hedge by 
from your character’s pre-Arcadia life, and place that accident and wander into Arcadia on your own, captured 
character at an empty intersection in your grid of themes on arrival?
and props. Where were you when it went down? Were there any wit-

Promises: What was the most important promise nesses? What do you remember of the journey, if anything? 
you made before you were taken, and to whom did you Was it long and arduous, or over in the blink of an eye?
make it? What about a promise someone else made to you, Act Three: In Durance Vile
that you still remember?

Questions to Ask: What was your name before, and A changeling’s durance is the period of his life that 
is it different now? How old were you before, and has your shapes his biggest challenges and who he is to become. Some 
apparent age changed since your durance? What did you changelings barely remember it except in nightmares, while 
look like, and does that differ from your current Mask? others are always on the verge of a flashback or panic attack, 

seeing their Keeper and her knives around every corner. 
What was your family like, growing up? Are your Most are somewhere in between, until they increase their 

parents still together? Divorced? Never married? Single- Wyrd enough to remember specifics more clearly. For most 
parent household? Were you an orphan, or raised by an Lost, this trauma remains locked in the back of their minds, 
uncle or a grandparent? slipping out at moments of tension or vulnerability. The 

What’s your gender, if you have one? Does it match durance determines the changeling’s kith, and sometimes 
your presentation; has it changed from before your du- seeming, and may affect what court they choose to join later.
rance? Are you okay with that? What’s your sexual ori- Decide what the changeling’s durance was like, answer-
entation? Have you shared it with your loved ones or not? ing the questions presented here. Then create one Story-
Did you have a partner, or several, that you left behind? teller character who was involved, and place that character 

What kind of education or training did you receive? at an empty intersection in your grid of themes and props. 
What was your occupation and what did you do for in- This could be the character’s Keeper, another changeling or 
come? Were you wealthy, middle class, or poor? Where a hobgoblin, or even another True Fae. Don’t hold back in 
did you live and where were you from? Were you owning, this section (at least within limits the group sets; see “Safe 
renting, couch surfing, or squatting? Did you have a pet? Hearth, Safe Table” on p. 302). The Gentry are not known 
More than one? for mercy or obeying the laws of physics.

Did you have any identifying marks, like tattoos or Promises: What did you have to promise your Keeper 
scars? What were your hobbies and pastimes? Who would to avoid punishment day to day? What promises did it make 
notice if you were gone or acting strangely? to you, only to break? What promises did you make to your 

fellow captives to plan your mutual escape, and vice versa?

Setting the Stage 299



Questions to Ask: What is your Keeper’s Title like? his spouse’s laughter, or the warmth in his chest when he 
How did it treat you? (Players can leave as many of these held his child for the first time. Or it might be a petty 
details to the Storyteller as they wish.) vendetta against a coworker left unsettled, or his jealousy 

What was the least unpleasant part of your durance? that someone else might be lying with his lover. Not all 
The most? What wonderful or beauteous aspect of Faerie human memories are noble or loving, and that’s not the 
do you miss still? point. Memories of the mortal world are the changeling’s 

What kind of routine did you have, such as it was? key to getting out of Faerie. 
Were other members of your motley there, or was it just “What was strong enough to bring the character 
you? Were you usually alone, or were others always around back?” is the paramount question for this section. Even 
— if the latter, who were they? the player skips the other questions in this act, he should 

What was the environment like? Were you mostly in- know the answer to this one. It’s a good indication of the 
doors or outdoors? Was it hot, cold, or temperate? Use de- changeling’s priorities later in the chronicle.
scriptors that appeal to all five senses here, to make your Decide how the character escaped or was rescued, 
character’s memories vivid, if lacking in coherence. What answering the questions presented here. Then create one 
fell pacts did your Keeper make with the realm in which Storyteller character who was involved, and place that 
you were imprisoned, that you could survive it? character at an empty intersection in your grid of themes 

What was the last straw that prompted you to brave and props. This could be a helpful hobgoblin to whom he 
an escape attempt? How many such attempts did you now owes a debt, a fae-touched who came to free him, a 
make before you succeeded? rival he defeated to win his freedom, a dupe he used and 

left behind, or someone else.
How did you acquire your seeming and your kith (if 

you have one)? Promises: Who witnessed your escape and promised 
not to tell — or promised they would? Who came with 

Act Four: My Escape you, swearing never to leave your side; who stayed behind 
but vowed to find you again someday? What debts do you 

Some part of the enslaved changeling felt the call owe for your freedom?
back to the mortal world. Perhaps it was the memory of 

300 Chapter Seven: Tales Around the Fire



Questions to Ask: What was strong enough to bring The Lost chronicle takes place in and around the local 
you back? freehold or freeholds. You can use this act to set up the 

Did you sneak out? Fight your way out? Make a bet or courts around which your characters’ changeling society 
play a game with your Keeper for high stakes? Or maybe you will revolve, if you like, or leave them entirely up to the 
didn’t want to leave; were you let go or thrown out instead? Storyteller. The easiest way is to use the four Seasonal 

Did anyone else come with you? Did you have to Courts, detailed starting on p. 34; but see “Customizing 
leave anyone else behind?  Your Chronicle” later in this chapter for guidance on 

building your own.
What do you remember of your journey back? What 

were you searching for on your way through the Thorns, Unless a player character begins the game at the head 
and what dangers did you face? How did you overcome of a court, creating the monarchs or other rulers is a good 
them? What is one of your Icons like? first step; the players may choose to include one or several 

of them as the Storyteller characters they create in this 
Act Five: Home, But Not act, or the Storyteller can do it separately. The monarchs 

say a lot about their courts — and, by extension, the tone 
The great tragedy of a changeling’s life is that she is and symbolism of the chronicle itself. A Fairest Playmate 

forever displaced from what she used to know. A fetch takes as Spring Queen gives the freehold a very different out-
her place and her family moves on. Any encounter with look and aesthetic from one with an Elemental Snowskin 
former friends and loved ones results in confusion — and Spring King. If the motley has two or more characters in 
that’s the best-case scenario. The Lost may tumble out of the same court, players can work together to come up 
the Hedge thousands of miles away from their hometowns. with details about their rulers, if they like.
They may emerge, gasping, 20 years after — or before — 
they were abducted, though only an hour passed in Faerie. Promises: What oath of fealty did you swear to your 
For a newly freed slave, this is a punch in the gut. Where do court, and how is it similar to the one you were forced 
they belong? Will they ever belong anywhere? to swear to your Keeper? How is it different? What other 

oaths have you sworn with members of your court or free-
Decide where and when the character ended up back hold?

in the mortal world, answering the questions presented 
here. Then create one Storyteller character who was Questions to Ask: Who is your court ruler? How did 
there, or whom the character sought out or ran into first, they achieve that position? How do you feel about their 
and place that character at an empty intersection in your policies and attitudes? Do you get along with them, hate 
grid of themes and props. and fear them, look up to them with awe and respect?

Promises: What promise did your fetch break to What other figures are prominent in your court? 
someone you love? What promise did they uphold that In the freehold? Which monarch is currently in charge? 
you couldn’t, or never did? Or, if you don’t have a fetch, When and how will they cede power to the next one?
what promise to you did someone else break while you Why did you choose to join your court? What’s your 
were gone? What promise did you break by your absence? favorite part of being the kind of courtier you are? Your 
Is there a fae-touched waiting for you somewhere, or still least favorite? How involved are you in court and freehold 
trapped in fae realms looking for you? business?

Questions to Ask: Who did you seek first, and did Where is the freehold located? What is it called? Do 
you find them? Are they still alive? Do they remember you hold an official position in it?
you? If you didn’t find them first, who did you find instead? Act Seven: A Motley Crew 

Where is your fetch? How are they betraying you 
when you first encounter them? Or do you even have one? The motley is the core unit of changeling society, a 
Did you deal with them right away, or are they still out chosen family that reaches beyond boundaries of seeming, 
there? How has your fetch lived your life in your absence? kith, and court. Player characters are usually in a motley 
Do they know you exist, and that they’re not human? together and their connection should be one of the major 

Where and when did you emerge from the Hedge? focuses of the chronicle. Often, motley-mates are willing 
Have you lost time, or are you displaced in it? Did you end to face death for each other, but it could just as easily be a 
up far from home, or was home staring you in the face as group of drinking buddies who fear being alone.
soon as you got back? Did you stay where you emerged, or Promises: What oath did you all swear to each 
did you travel somewhere else? other? How was it different from the one you were forced 

to swear to your Keeper? What was the pledge sworn on 
Act Six: My New Life and what are its terms? What obligations do individual 

Unless the game starts with the player characters’ motley-mates have outside the motley that might present 
capture and durance, much of any given Changeling: complications or force betrayals later?

Setting the Stage 301



Questions to Ask: What drew you to each other? Decide between the Storyteller and the player what 
How did you meet up — did you share a durance, or come the character’s durance should focus on. A Bright One’s 
together afterward? durance probably doesn’t involve toiling in the mines, but 

Does your motley have a name? A common goal, a she might light the way for Helldivers and Gristlegrinders. 
group aesthetic? Who is the leader, if anyone? An Ogre is not likely the Princess of the Red Crowns’ 

How do others in the freehold view your motley? How lover, but he might hold her lovers still while she whispers 
does your motley view its own place in things? Have you to them and lines up the hats to nail onto their heads. 
yet accomplished any deeds together that you’re known The Storyteller should take careful note of what the play-
for in the freehold — or among your enemies? er wants. The durance can be extremely disturbing and 

upsetting, and it’s important that the player is only dis-
Act Zero:  turbed or upset in the ways she wants to be. At any point, 

The Prologue the Storyteller or player should be allowed to tap out or 
fade to black (see below) if the scene become too much 

Your group has three general options for how to han- for them. There’s no rush to tell the story of the durance. 
dle the characters’ durances and escapes from Arcadia. Suffering has no deadline.
They can stay purely in the background, never coming up 
in play except in tales the changelings tell to each other; The Escape
they can be revealed and explored over time as interactive Run, run away. Run from Arcadia, run through the 
flashbacks throughout the chronicle, perhaps whenever a Hedge. Hide and scamper, careful but fast. This is the 
player purchases a dot of Wyrd or when the characters most hectic time in a changeling’s life, his desperate flight 
recover Icons; or you can play through them directly as back to home and independence.
prologues before the chronicle proper begins. Any of these In general, an escape prologue doesn’t require dice or 
works just fine, and individual players may even choose systems, although if the player wants to bring rolls into it 
different methods. It’s okay if one player never wants to for fun, go ahead and do that. Just remember that regard-
play through her character’s durance at all and another less of how the dice fall, the character will successfully es-
wants to do so in a series of flashbacks. Players might even cape — it’s just a matter of how difficult it is and what he 
choose to play out their characters’ escapes but not their sacrifices along the way. The scene starts with the Hedge 
durances, or any other combination. as a hurdle, and ends with sweet freedom. In between, 

The Durance three things must happen: The character must brave the 
Thorns, he must lose his Icon(s), and he must face peril.

Playing out a durance as prologue or flashback re- This is a good time to teach the character to fear 
quires careful consideration. Even at its most detailed, the Hedge while introducing the player to fascinating 
such a scene should feel like a dream, not a fully realized elements of it that he might want to revisit later in the 
experience. Time skips, nonsensical interactions, mud- chronicle. Use Hedge ghosts and hobgoblins, make cre-
dled events, confusing conversations, and vague descrip- ative use of terrain and Hedge shaping magic, and don’t 
tions should all contribute to the feeling that the change- be afraid of outmatching the character. The escape is a 
ling’s memory — and thus, the player’s experience at the predetermined event — you need luck, wits, and bravery 
table—is faulty and murky on this subject. The exception to escape the durance, and if this character didn’t have 
is a flashback for a character at high Wyrd; the higher a those, he would not be a Changeling: The Lost character 
character’s Wyrd, the more detailed her recollections are, in the first place. You can scare him as much as you want, 
and the more immediate her trauma feels as a result. knowing he’ll make it through in the end.

The durance is characterized by loss of autonomy, 
both bodily and spiritual; make sure that’s true only of Safe Hearth,  
the character and not the player. Running a durance scene 
does not permit a Storyteller to torture her players out- Safe Table
side the boundaries of the game in the name of story. The Changeling: The Lost is a game about surviving 
player must always have a say in what happens during her trauma and horrors. It’s also a game about empowering 
durance if she wants one, and may set any hard limits she the protagonists to retake control of their lives. It’s the 
wants on themes she doesn’t want to explore. If possible, Storyteller’s job to make sure both characters and players 
narrate durances in private; you can even do it via text if don’t become so overwhelmed with the former that they 
that’s easier. Nothing makes a player feel more vulnerable can’t find their way to the latter.
and disrespected than playing out an intense scene, only While it’s fun to play make believe with friends, this 
for another player to interrupt with a joke or an off-color is, at its heart, a horror game. True, it is also funny, beauti-
comment about what’s going on. ful, and wondrous — but all that wonder comes at the cost 

302 Chapter Seven: Tales Around the Fire



of being enslaved and tormented in a nightmare realm for 
months, years, or decades. Changelings may have their 
bodies broken and their minds played with. Personal au- Fade to Black
tonomy is repeatedly violated by godlike entities to whom 
one cannot simply say “no.” The only way to make it stop In a movie, when the hero is just about to get 
is to escape, and even then, that’s not a guarantee. The into bed with her love interest or be “forcibly 

interrogated,” sometimes the camera cuts 
Wild Hunt will find you eventually, one way or another. away right before the action — occasionally 

This can be extremely unsettling for players. While with a moan or a scream to indicate what’s 
consensual fear is part of the game, the goal is not to happening. This technique is called “fade to 
traumatize the players outside of the play space. Rather, black,” and can be used in your chronicle 
everyone should strive for a game that provides an en- where appropriate. If you don’t want to narrate 
gaging, terrifying, and beautiful story that gives everyone every caress of a love scene, the weirdness 
involved the sorts of pleasant chills a really good horror of a changeling’s personal nightmare, or the 
movie leaves the audience with after the credits roll. Even agony of Faerie torments, simply fade to black 

and move on the next scene. A player can also 
if a character feels trapped and hopeless, the player should request a fade to black if they are uncomfort-
never feel the same way at the table. able with what is happening at the table.

What follows are some safety techniques to help both 
Storytellers and players maximize enjoyment without tak-
ing away any of the horror at the heart of Changeling: 
The Lost. Feel free to use none, some, or all of them. different colored circles on the table: red, yellow, and 

green. Each color indicates a response to different levels of 
Lines and Veils intensity. Green means “yes, I am okay with and encour-

A venerable old safety technique, Lines and Veils al- age the scene getting more intense.” Yellow means “the 
low players to pick and choose what they want to address scene is fine at the intensity level it is now, and I would 
in the chronicle. Before the game, the Storyteller pre- like it to stay here if possible.” Red means “the scene is 
pares two sheets of paper. Label one “Lines” and the other too intense for me in a bad way and I need it to decrease 
“Veils.” Lines are things the chronicle will absolutely not or I need to tap out.” Players can tap the colored circles as 
touch on, not even in passing. Veils are things that can appropriate to indicate to the Storyteller what they want 
happen, but will not be played out, instead addressed with or need at that moment. 
a “fade to black.” The Storyteller asks players what they’d The Storyteller can also use the stoplight system to 
like added to the lists, and notes that the lists can be edit- ask the players if they’d like intensity increased or de-
ed at any time. Veils can be moved to Lines, Lines can be creased as necessary without breaking the narrative flow. 
moved to Veils, new Veils or Lines can be added, or Veils To do so, the Storyteller can repeatedly tap a color — 
or Lines can be taken away (with the consensus of the green for “more intense?”, yellow for “keep it here?”, and 
other players). Veils and Lines cannot be used to cut out red for “do you need me to stop?” The players can then 
antagonists (i.e. “I don’t want the True Fae to be a part touch a color in response. Players can also respond by say-
of this chronicle at all, not even mentioned in passing”) ing the color in question out loud.
but can be used to restrict antagonists’ actions that might 
be uncomfortable for some players (i.e. “I do not want the The X Card
True Fae in this chronicle to use sexual violence”). An up-and-coming technique, especially in storytell-

Common Lines: Sexual violence, explicit depictions ing-game circles, the X card was designed by John Stavro-
of torture, force-feeding, starvation, mutilation, racial polous. A card or sheet of paper with an “X” drawn on it 
slurs, gender-specific slurs, spiders, trypophobia-inducing is placed in the middle of the table. At any point, a player 
imagery, needles, bestiality, explicit depictions of bodily or the Storyteller may touch the X card to call a halt to 
functions any action currently making them uncomfortable in a 

Common Veils: Explicit depictions of consensual bad way. If they would like to explain themselves, they 
sexual activity, torture, emotional abuse, physical abuse, may, but it is absolutely not necessary and the Storyteller 
body horror, human experimentation, dream or night- should continue play only after everyone settles back in.
mare sequences, childhood memories, prophetic visions The Door Is  
The Stoplight System Always Open

This is a technique pioneered relatively recently by If a player needs to stop play for any reason, they are 
the group Games to Gather. The Storyteller lays out three free to do so after giving the Storyteller a heads up. The 

Setting the Stage 303



game session is then on pause until that player either re-
turns or leaves the premises. Storytellers should use this 
technique either in conjunction with other techniques, or Emotional Bleed
during sessions where players may have to leave abruptly 
for personal reasons. Many of these safety techniques talk about 

something being too uncomfortable or too 
Debriefing intense “in a bad way.” This is for clarity of 

communication. Some players like being made 
Debriefing is a post-game safety technique, which you uncomfortable or put into extremely emotion-

can use along with any and all of the suggestions above. ally intense situations. Such players may play 
After the chapter is finished, the Storyteller asks the play- horror games to cry or feel trapped as a sort 
ers to put away their character sheets and take some deep of catharsis, a way to experience traumatic 
breaths. You can use soft music and/or snacks to assist in emotions in a low-consequence environment; in 
debriefing. Slipping into character is easy — slipping out a Changeling game, they’re also couched in a 
can be harder. Debriefing is all about bringing the players layer of fantasy that makes it easier for players 

to engage with them.
back to the real world, back through the thorny maze of 
the chronicle they created with the Storyteller. This is called emotional bleed, or just bleed for 

Use this time to talk about the game in a context short. When a character experiences emotions 
other than first person. Players tend to refer to their char- the player is experiencing, that’s called bleed-
acters as “I.” The Storyteller should encourage them to in. By contrast, when a player experiences the 
use the characters’ names instead, and use first person emotions her character is feeling, that’s called 

bleed-out. Bleed itself is not bad, but it can 
only for things that they felt as players, not as characters. sometimes be unpleasant for a player who 
What did they think was the highlight of this session? wasn’t expecting it or didn’t want it. If a player 
What was their favorite interaction they had with an- is getting unreasonably frustrated or upset at a 
other player’s character? A Storyteller character? Is there challenging circumstance, this could be a sign of 
anything the players think the Storyteller could be doing bleed. Stop play and give everyone a breather 
better? Are the safety techniques and chronicle-building before continuing if bleed begins to cause 
techniques working out for everyone at the table? Should problems at your table. Bleed can absolutely 
anything be changed to make the game more fun and en- enhance the play experience and add another 
gaging for everyone involved? These are all questions you dimension of emotional resonance, but only if 
can ask during debriefing, though they’re not necessary. If everyone is on board. Check-ins, occasional 
you need to cover other, more important topics with your snack breaks, and use of the safety techniques 

in this chapter are extremely helpful if the table 
players, feel free to use debriefing time to do that as well. is experiencing high amounts of bleed.

Debriefing does not need to last for a set amount of 
time. However, after a particularly intense session, it’s 
probably a good idea to have a longer debriefing period 
than normal. Changelings are forever changed by their change, constantly evolving to suit their own interests — 
experience with the True Fae. The players should not in- put 13 Lost in a room, and no two are alike. This section 
cur the same trauma just from sitting at a gaming table. presents rules to make new kiths, Mantles, and Goblin 
Tabletop gaming is a low-consequence environment to Contracts to add to a chronicle, to make it uniquely yours.
explore many different emotions and coping strategies 
in new and strange situations. To keep this space low- Kiths
consequence, it’s important to make sure that all play- Some Keepers sculpt changelings to their whims; 
ers (including the Storyteller!) are emotionally supported these changelings’ forms literally exist because their Keep-
and cared for after particularly upsetting or bleed-heavy ers wanted them. Others have more specialized forms be-
chapters. cause of a fixation they used to cope with their circum-

C stances, or wondrous and terrible things they encountered 
ustomizing your in Faerie. Drawing inspiration from books, songs, or mov-

Chronicle ies, Storytellers and players can craft their own kiths.

Arcadia is a place of roiling creation, ever-changing Purpose
on the tide of mortal dreams and Fae whims. A single sen-
tence, put gingerly to paper, raises mountains that grow What does the kith do; what niche does it fill? This 
upside down to burrow into the darkest recesses of the fae should be narrow: A Beast is animalistic to her core, but 
realm. The Lost are the heirs and navigators of this sea of a Hunterheart exhibits only those animal traits that make 

her a better hunter. 

304 Chapter Seven: Tales Around the Fire



At this point, select a primary category for the 
new kith. A kith can encompass a little of each, but 
selecting a primary one now helps with selecting a 
Skill benefit later.
•	 Mental: The changeling was a living lore 

repository, designed a puzzle her Keeper 
couldn’t solve, or gleaned the strategy that 
won the war against the Midnight King.

•	 Physical: The changeling singlehandedly 
carved a castle from a mountain, hunted 
down the Everheart Stag, or killed the child 
prophesied to bring low her Keeper.

•	 Social: The changeling thawed her Keeper’s 
frozen heart, infiltrated the court of the Gob-
lin King, or wrote a single poem capturing all 
that is Arcadia.

Benefits
Every curse has its blessing, and every impos-

sible task its way out. Each kith carries two unique 
benefits that allow its members to fulfill their pur-
pose. This is more than just expertise born from 
practice; it’s Arcadia recognizing and empowering 
the changeling’s soul.
•	 Skill: Every kith has one Skill that needs only 

three successes, rather than five, to achieve an 
exceptional success under particular circum-
stances. The Storyteller can set limits based 
on the Skill’s usefulness in her chronicle. This 
benefit might not be as valuable for Socialize 
as for Brawl in a chronicle that revolves more 
around street-level stories like dealing with 
fetches and Huntsmen than courtly intrigues. 
A Socialize blessing, then, could be as wide as 
“any Socialize specialty,” whereas Brawl might 
warrant “engaging in single combat to defend 
her friends” as its limit. 

•	 Trickery: Each kith harnesses a unique power 
in pursuit of its members’ task. Using this 
power requires conscious effort. Most com-
monly, this is represented by spending one 
Glamour point and making an Attribute + 
Skill roll: A Helldiver can become immate-
rial after spending a Glamour and rolling 
Dexterity + Occult. Exceptions to this ex-
ist depending on the kith’s function. For in-
stance, if the blessing affects an opponent, it 
should be resisted (if it has an effect that must 
keep track of how many successes the player 
rolls) or contested (if it doesn’t); a contested 
roll should include the changeling’s Wyrd and 

Customizing Your Chronicle 305



opponent’s Supernatural Tolerance in the pools •	 Arcadia’s Gift: Nothing in Arcadia happens with a 
as well. When the kith’s blessing enhances allies purpose, but everything happens for a reason. Sent 
rather than the character herself, such as that of on a quest to slay the Everheart, the changeling’s 
the Notary, it may not require Glamour or a roll at soul intertwined with the stag’s, and as she stood 
all. over his dying corpse, weeping at the success of her 

task, she took his essence as her own. Now she is as 
Availability he was, running proud and free.

How many of these specialized Lost reside in the 
freehold’s territory; what makes sense, given the nearby Court and Mantles
Hedge and other factors? If a player wrote or requested the The Seasonal Courts hold great power, ruling huge 
kith, the Storyteller should confer with her, too — after swaths of North America and Europe, as well as other 
all, it was her idea, and she might have a vision for it. places in the world where the symbolism and Bargains 
•	 Prolific: Any character in the chronicle can adopt may differ but the fundamental idea remains the same. 

this kith. It might even be the most prevalent in The world also holds a plethora of other courts, though, 
the region. The Hedge in Helsinki leads to the living alongside or replacing the Seasonal Courts locally 
realm of the Snow Queen, and the city’s courts are or regionally.
nearly overrun with Snowskins. How Many Courts  

• 	 Unique Specimen: Maybe a player wrote the kith, in a Freehold?
and he has specific ideas about its representation. The courts may have rivalries between them and, if 
Or, the Storyteller is running a campaign where push comes to shove, may decide it’s enough to outrun the 
each kith is only present once. Whitechapel, Lon- other prey. As general rule, though, the courts recognize 
don, holds only one Leechfinger, Clever Jack, who that the rising tide lifts all ships, and work together.
stalks all others like him to suck secrets and mar-
row from their bones. •	 Themed Courts: individual but thematically-con-

nected parts creating one whole together, like four 
•	 A Handful: Most chronicles sit somewhere in be- Seasons, five Elements, or any number of mythical 

tween, neither encouraging nor discouraging play- beasts. These courts are aspects of the same theme, 
ers from selecting a certain kith. Tumbledown’s creating rivalries and alliances through symbolism 
Court of Favors sees more Notaries and Chat- that make for a complex political landscape. This 
elaines, but has positions for Gristlegrinders or is the most common way to set up a freehold.
Hunterhearts when social niceties fail. 

•	 Opposites Attract: two halves of the same circle, 
Origins like Dusk and Dawn, or Yin and Yang. Smaller Lost 

communities might have room for only two courts. 
A changeling’s essence needs to be twisted onto a Such dual coexistence creates an interesting di-

razor’s edge before it can fit in the singular role of a kith. chotomy, but also greater dependence on each 
The Lost didn’t pursue this role for just a day, she gave other.
it everything she had — and Arcadia gave her a kith in 
return. •	 One Court, Many Facets: in rare freeholds, change-
•	 Keeper’s Pet: The changeling’s Keeper deliberate- lings gather in a single court, like the Court of the 

ly molded her. He needed someone to gather up Leafless Tree back in the days of the American Old 
the knowledge falling from his head, until words West. These freeholds are usually small, reflect-
poured from her ears and mouth and she could no ing a similarly small community or a tight focus 
longer remember her own name, but she knew the on a specific kind of Bargain. Single-court free-
names of all 70 Sisters. holds often coexist with larger ones, filling niches 

for changelings who want something different, but 
•	 Changeling’s Will: The changeling pushed and not always. In such courts, the cycling of power 

contorted herself, adopting her new role as a way to happens internally between members of different 
survive. Her Keeper promised freedom if she pre- seemings, kiths, factions, or other kinds of groups.
sented him with an unsolvable mystery, so she trav-
eled Arcadia for seven years, drinking up secrets Coping
and riddles until her existence was a contradiction The changeling escaped his Keeper. Now he needs to 
he couldn’t comprehend. deal with the trauma, remain free, and find a way to re-

claim his identity. He looks for others like him, and those 

306 Chapter Seven: Tales Around the Fire



of a similar mind band together in courts. In a way, the Beyond the matter of how the courts divide power 
courts are organized coping mechanisms. The Seasonal between them lies the issue of what each court does when 
Courts cope by dealing with emotions: Spring represents it’s in power, and what it does when it’s not. The Seasonal 
the desire to be free, Summer expresses wrath toward the Courts wait, more or less patiently, and scheme so their 
Fae (or themselves for being taken), Autumn embodies return to power will be more glorious than any other sea-
the fear of being taken again, and Winter holds sorrow son. The Beast Courts actively work against each other, 
for everything lost both in this world and Arcadia. When believing the constant conflict makes them stronger for 
designing a court, consider how it copes with changelings’ when the Huntsman arrives.
trauma, and how this outlook affects its relationships with 
mortals and other Lost. Mantle

Not every court aligns directly with an emotion, but Mantle represents a changeling adopting a court’s 
coping with trauma is always emotional on some level. No outlook and expressions. This sympathy doesn’t just en-
matter what themes your court embodies, choose an emo- hance the Lost’s Court Contracts, but also offers benefits 
tion that its courtiers favor for inciting Bedlam that reso- of its own. Scaled with a dot rating from one to five, Man-
nates with those themes. For instance, you might decide that tle grants a specific action a changeling can perform to 
a court based on the proud and noble lion inflicts awe, while regain a point of Glamour, and other mechanical benefits 
one based on the sly and wily fox inflicts doubt. Any emotion for each dot that help encourage and reinforce the court’s 
that can be turned up to overwhelming intensity works. themes. Also, decide what kinds of fantastical effects a 

Mantle has on a changeling’s fae mien; these should be 
The Bargain specific enough to recognizably belong to the court in 

Every fae being bargains. Courts make even greater question, but broad enough that different members can 
Bargains with a single patron, an entity or concept that express the court’s Mantle through their miens in differ-
empowers — and is empowered by — the court’s coping ent ways.
strategies. As long as the court keeps up its end of this The below list is a guideline, rather than a hard rule. 
deal, its patron promises safety against the fae. Sometimes Some courts focus more, or less, on certain kinds of bene-
it actively protects changelings in the domain. Other fits, depending on their unique missions and philosophies.
times, the patron forces the Gentry into a pattern of be- • - ••	 The first and second dots usually offer bo-
havior that lets the Lost predict their moves, thus giving nus dice on specific kinds of rolls equal to 
the changelings an edge. No Bargain is foolproof and Fae the character’s Mantle rating. These are 
forces can always find ways around it, but doing so should small effects — the changeling still uses 
take effort and should frustrate the Others, costing them her own skill, but is better at utilizing it.
time and resources.

This Bargain dilutes into rituals as time passes. The ••• - ••••	 The third and fourth dots could grant 
Summer Court’s Great Hunt is an exercise intended to similar bonus dice to a slightly broader 
train warriors to be relentless and fearless should the kind of roll: rerolls on a specific kind of 
Gentry attack. The Time Keepers in Prague feed Disquiet non-combat roll, regaining a Willpower 
from the city’s resident Promethean to the great Astro- point under a specific circumstance, tem-
nomical Clock: a seemingly harmless Bargain, until one porary dots of other Merits for a Willpower 
stops to consider what the clock’s owner does with all that cost, and other comparable benefits. The 
Disquiet-turned-Glamour. changeling is still using her own traits, but 

What Bargain did this court strike, and is it just? Do her Mantle allows her to cut corners in a 
all changelings in the domain know of the true Bargain, way mere skill couldn’t.
or do their rulers keep any horrific details to themselves?

•••••	 The fifth dot can offer rerolls on specific 
Rulership and Exile kinds of combat rolls, automatic success 

on certain specific non-combat actions, or 
The Seasonal Courts adhere to a (mostly) peaceful unique supernatural effects the change-

transition of power as the seasons pass. The Courts of ling can’t just learn through hard work. 
Dusk and Dawn change power twice daily, at midnight 
and noon. The Beast Courts, on the other hand, battle for The Crown
it: The most powerful court takes the throne until one of 
the other courts finally defeats them. Every set of courts Every court has a leader: its queen, the wisest schol-
needs some established method of transferring power pe- ar, the bravest warrior, or simply the first Lost to arrive in 
riodically, as that is what sets them apart from the Gen- the domain. The court’s patron bestows a gift upon her, a 
try’s tyranny. Crown, which manifests in the changeling’s mien so none 

Customizing Your Chronicle 307



can deny her claim to rule. The Crown also comes with a or create those emotions fit well. As well, Summer is a sea-
blessing, which doesn’t rely on Mantle rating — anyone can son of heat and dryness, so Contracts that summon scorch-
bear the Crown — but does grow more potent with it. Scale ing sunlight or dry flesh to a crisp are also appropriate.
the Crown’s effect with increasing benefits as the character’s 
Mantle rating increases, and fit it to the court’s nature: for Effect
instance, wrathful combat prowess for Summer, or the abil- A Contract can have almost any kind of effect. They 
ity to glean dread secrets for Autumn. Any effects should generally emphasize being tricky or slippery, or making 
also be temporary, lasting for one battle, one scene, or one some kind of exchange, and don’t grant straightforward 
chapter, and after that any lingering bonuses are lost. benefits without some catch or twist. Contracts, espe-

cially Common ones, usually provide a changeling with a 
Arcadian and Court way to “cheat,” rather than giving dominion over a broad 

Contracts mystical purview. Royal Contracts are usually a bit flash-
ier than Common ones, and the powerful forces behind 

Common Arcadian Contracts are deals the True Court Contracts can make their effects more overt.
Fae originally negotiated for their servants. They focus 
on extending senses and shaping what’s already there, Type of Roll
whether it be emotions or physical phenomena. Many contracts don’t need a roll — if the changeling 

Royal Arcadian Contracts are agreements the Gen- pays the Glamour or fulfills the Loophole, they just work. 
try originally forged for themselves, which changelings Contracts that are actively resisted or opposed by other 
can make themselves party to. They deal with creating people should always require rolls, while Contracts that 
people, places, and things out of whole cloth, directly primarily affect the changeling or act on inanimate ob-
tampering with minds, forcing people to do the invoker’s jects usually just work. Include a roll if you can imagine 
bidding, and affecting destiny. the number of rolled successes mattering to the result.

Court Contracts also come in Common and Royal The type of roll made to activate a Contract varies 
varieties. In this case, “royalty,” rather than being those based on what forces push back against it. If another liv-
who rise to the levels of the Others, are those who rise to ing or thinking force is acting against the Contract, and 
the level of the court’s founders. the number of successes matters, it’s resisted. Subtract one 

of the force’s resistance Attributes from the player’s dice 
A Court Contract can be either something the pa- pool. Where there’s active resistance, but where the num-

tron grants to the courtier, or something the courtier of- ber of successes doesn’t matter, the action is contested. 
fers up to the patron. For example, Summer grants a lot of The opposing party rolls a Resistance Attribute + their 
heat-based powers, because Helios is Summer’s lover and Supernatural Tolerance. In either case, the player’s dice 
loves her vassals just as much. But Summer also grants pool is Attribute + Skill + either Wyrd (for Arcadian 
powers that amplify wrath, and in doing so she glorifies Contracts) or Mantle (for Court Contracts).
herself, strengthening everything she stands for through 
the changelings who use her gifts. Other Seasonal Con- Loophole
tracts provide ways for a changeling to consume the pa- Every Contract has a Loophole, a way a changeling 
tron’s emotions, feeding it in turn by proxy. Keep in mind can get the Contract’s benefits without spending Glamour 
that a “patron” isn’t necessarily a single entity or spirit (although Willpower and other costs still apply). It takes 
— it just has to be powerful enough to make and uphold the form of a ritual behavior that appeases the patron in 
a deal with True Fae or changelings. lieu of Glamour payment. The Loophole is always the-

Contract Creation matically related to the Contract, based on symbolism or 
sympathetic magic. For example, a Contract that protects 

To create a Contract, first decide whether it’s more against extreme temperatures might allow a changeling to 
about manipulation or enhancement (and hence Com- blow out a fading ember or burn something that belongs 
mon) or creating or wholly reforging (and therefore Royal). to the target instead of paying Glamour.
Specific ranges of dice bonuses aren’t as important as the Even better Loopholes represent a small risk, like 
nature of what the Contract does. Mind control that only stealing a sentimental object from the target or forcing 
lets you marshal someone the way that they were already them to break your skin. A Loophole should be something 
going is usually Common, whereas one that stirs them to active or deliberate, usually performed within the scene in 
a grudge they’d never before considered is usually Royal. which the character activates the Contract.

If the Contract belongs to a court, consider the court The difficulty or risk of fulfilling a Loophole depends 
patron’s personality and purview. Under most models, Sum- more on the value of the ritual to the other party in the con-
mer’s personality is fierce and unsubtle, and its emotions tract — blowing out a candle lit by a true friend might be 
are anger and wrath. Therefore, Contracts that manipulate trivial for a changeling, but have great value to Intimacy itself.

308 Chapter Seven: Tales Around the Fire



Goblin Contracts Goblin Markets, while others are only found in their re-
mote Hedge abodes. Rarely does a court allow a goblin to 

Goblin Contracts as a whole are haphazard, and cov- visit its gatherings — they are notoriously untrustworthy, 
er a huge variety of situations. An individual Contract and often bring the Huntsmen in their wake (either 
though, is highly focused: A Goblin Contract does only through negligence or malice). Striking a bargain with a 
one thing, and does it very well. goblin should be memorable, with a hint of danger: Even 
Effect the most well-intentioned goblin cannot be trusted. The 

most powerful goblin, the one with the best Contracts, is 
Where Arcadian and Court Contracts might have often the one that is hardest to deal with — he’s erratic, 

multiple effects folded into one, a Goblin Contract is grumpy, and generally ill-disposed towards everyone. At 
simple and unique to the goblin who sold it. Imagine a the end of the day though, he wants to make the deal. 
problem. Now imagine a goblin. How does he solve it? No matter how much the goblin complains, the real price 
That’s what the Contract does. Or imagine what innate isn’t the trinket the changeling retrieved for him, or the 
powers a goblin might have: Would he be willing to share lock of hair she gave him (though that will come back to 
them with a changeling, for a price? That’s a Goblin Con- bite her) — it’s all about the sweet Debt. If a player wants 
tract, too. her character to pick up a new Goblin Contract, she can 

As long as each individual Contract remains within always find a seller.
its narrow confines, it can tackle almost anything: burrow-
ing through earth and mud, bottling despair in a draught Debtor
that brings nightmares, or sculpting a labyrinthine castle Debt makes Goblin Contracts dangerous to change-
from a child’s dreams are all good examples. lings. Rack up enough Debt, and that unassuming gob-

Cost and Use lin merchant turns into a tyrant demanding pieces of her 
soul. Or worse, the changeling might become the tyrant 

Goblin Contracts are a little cheaper to invoke than as the Hedge sinks its thorns into her. The Storyteller 
comparable Arcadian Contracts. Most cost only a single should keep track of creditors if they’re relevant to the 
Glamour point, or two if they’re particularly powerful, and story: the goblin who sealed the bargain, and any third 
rarely if ever cost Willpower. They often have a Loop- parties backing it. These investors are often fiercely ter-
hole the changeling can consciously manipulate (she ritorial, and a band of changelings might discover they all 
can choose to throw down her weapons before enacting owe Debt to the same denizens. The Queen of Eyes grants 
Precocious Evasion), or that works well with the Con- Contracts that deal with vision — both enhancing and 
tract’s general use (Goblin Luck’s Loophole hinges on the obscuring it — for the small price of a changeling’s own 
changeling having no skill in the attempted task, which is eyes in exchange for a stranger pair. While a character 
exactly when the Contract might see the most use). This should rightly be worried about Debt (once he finds out 
is by design: The goblin wants changelings to use its Con- about it, as goblins are rarely upfront), the player should 
tracts so she racks up Debt. For the same reason, Goblin be able to trust her Storyteller with Debt. Debt is not a 
Contracts shouldn’t require dice rolls unless absolutely way to “punish” a player for using Goblin Contracts, nor is 
necessary, such as to affect another character adversely. it intended to seriously mess with her character or enjoy-

ment of play. On the contrary, the effects of Debt should 
Purchase provide an interesting challenge to overcome, or a quest 

The changeling can purchase a Goblin Contract to fulfill. A good creditor enhances the character’s story, 
from a goblin. Some goblins run their own shops at rather than diminishing it.

Customizing Your Chronicle 309



…and many quailed to hear the dread words. For so sworn, good or evil, an oath may 
not be broken, and it shall pursue oathkeeper and oathbreaker to the world’s end.

J.R.R. Tolkien, The Silmarillion

Human interactions with Faerie tend to end poorly keeps her promise. The friend has children and her first 
for the human. Humans who enter the Hedge rarely child is named after her long-lost best friend. The moth-
return, and those who see a fae creature’s true mien er somehow knows the fetch replacing her child is not 
are stricken with awe and fear. Yet, within the ranks of real, and never gives up hope of finding her real son. 
humanity are a few who have experienced the realm of The lover never takes another, knowing that her true 
Faerie and have returned from that place different, but love is still out there somewhere. These people never 
not changed as the Lost are. These people are referred gave up hope, never gave up on their promises, and re-
to as fae-touched, for they carry a piece of the Wyrd mained true. The kept promise forges a link between 
inside them. The Lost refer to them as the Avowed, human and changeling — the changeling bolstered in 
honoring their devotion to keeping promises. her resolve to escape her bonds, the human drawn inex-

Fae-touched are not just people who happen to see plicably towards Faerie and her promised counterpart.
a changeling’s mien, or see past the illusion placed on a 
fetch. They are much more than that. Every single one Becoming  
of them has been inside the Hedge, and a few have even Fae-Touched
been to the outer edges of Arcadia. How humans become 
fae-touched varies by person, but all follow a common Just because someone has made a promise to a 
thread — they once made a promise with someone who is changeling, doesn’t make her automatically a fae-touched 
now a changeling. The promise was not something small, human. Instead, she must enter the Hedge and make it 
like a promise to walk the dog or call in the morning. back out again. Getting into the Hedge is not difficult and 
Instead, it was something big, like the promise a mother neither is it accidental. These people are drawn to Faerie, 
makes to her child to always be there for him, the promise seeking it out subconsciously as they perform their daily 
between sisters to never lie to one another, or the prom- tasks. Some resist the unrealized desire and are capable of 
ise between best friends to name their firstborn children living their lives in peace. Yet, as the years go by, the pull 
after each other. Whatever the promise and whatever the becomes stronger until eventually, even the most resistant 
circumstances, one of the members was taken and the give in. This is especially true if the person they keep their 
promise was left unfulfilled, yet remembered. promise to is still trapped in Arcadia. For others, the pull 

Unfulfilled promises between humans are common; is inescapable from the start, and it rules their lives. Some-
the difference is in the intention. The person left behind one always goes into the Hedge. Even if the person who 

310 Appendix One: The Fae-Touched



originally made the promise does not — maybe she dies of he gets lost on the way home. He knows these foot-
an accident or resists long into old age — someone takes paths like the back of his hand, but somehow they 
up the promise. It’s usually hereditary; her children or turn him around. Then, just as quickly as he is lost, 
grandchildren may feel the pull of the Hedge when she is he finds the right path and starts down it between all 
too old to fulfill the promise any longer. If she has no direct the thorny vines that seem to reach out for him.
descendants, then a niece, nephew, or even a cousin may 
start to feel the pull and obligation of their family member. •	 She is his best friend, but she hasn’t called in days. 

They used to talk every night, and now she won’t 
•	 A mother follows lead after lead looking for her real return his texts. He goes looking for her, but she isn’t 

child. She promised him that she’d always be there home and none of her other friends know where she 
for him. She uses everything at her disposal, follow- might have gone. No note, no word, and more dis-
ing the old stray threads of his passing. Her determi- tressing is the fact that her house looks so normal, 
nation leads her constantly to the place she last saw like she is just in the other room. Her phone and 
him: his school. She spends her evening scouring the keys lay on the table beside the door, just like always. 
area, looking for any evidence that something hap- He starts asking around, and no one has seen or 
pened here, though it’s been months or even years. heard from her. He even calls her parents, and they 
One fateful day, she sees a partial scrap of a shoelace. say she called them yesterday. He can’t believe it — 
It’s his shoelace, she’s certain of it. She sees another they promised each other they’d never keep secrets 
scrap of cloth further in the distance and she runs — so he keeps looking. Then, he finds someone that 
to it, passing beneath the overhanging arch of an old may know someone. He makes a call and sets up a 
oak branch. Her environment abruptly changes and meeting. This person knows where she is. They say 
brambles surround her on all sides. In front of her is the path is hard and long, but she’s been kidnapped. 
a narrow footpath, and she knows deep in her heart They can’t help, but they can point him in the right 
that her son lies at the end of the trail. direction. He just has to go out the back door and 

•	 A woman comes home to find an uncommonly follow the little footpath he sees there. 
messy house. Her wife is in the kitchen, prepar- Once the person is in the Hedge, her fate is sealed. 
ing dinner. Everything about the situation screams She is now fae-touched, despite what else happens. As 
to her that something is wrong. She sees a spot of she passes through whatever gateway brought her into the 
blood on the floor and as she inspects it, she sees a Hedge, she gains a connection to Faerie and is able to draw 
piece of a broken fingernail colored the same as her upon it. Usually, she has no idea what is happening, or that 
wife’s. She looks at her wife’s hand but none of the she has any control over her environment. This doesn’t 
nails are broken. She makes up an excuse and leaves stop the Hedge from responding to her desires and chang-
the house quickly, unable to return to whatever is ing accordingly. Most fae-touched are in the Hedge to find 
in there. Her wife is gone, but she had promised her their missing loved ones. Paths open before them and direct 
that she would always fight for their right to be to- them deeper into Faerie, following their tenuous connec-
gether. The front garden is torn up, and she wonders tion to the last place Faerie knew the changeling was held. 
how she didn’t notice earlier. She follows the path of If left unchecked, a fae-touched can walk all the way to the 
small details out of place until she reaches a clear- changeling who shares her promise. Yet, if she ventures too 
ing. She sees two paths that look exactly the same, deep into Faerie, she is likely to never return.
but her heart points her left and she does not hesi-
tate before stepping off in that direction. Escaping the Hedge

•	 His older sister is a monster. Or maybe the monster A fae-touched is free to move about the Hedge as 
isn’t his sister at all. He isn’t sure how it happened, she wishes, but finding her way out is a different matter 
but he knows that one day she came home from col- entirely. Most humans who enter the Hedge this way do 
lege and she was a monster. He can’t really see the so with a singular purpose. If she strays from that purpose, 
sticks and mud that make her up, but he can feel or leaves the trail, she is likely to get hopelessly lost. If she 
them when he touches her, and he can smell the dirt stays her course, she is drawn increasingly closer to Arca-
around her. No one believes him. They tell him to dia and the True Fae who captured her friend. She has a 
go watch TV or read a book and leave her alone. He few options for returning to the real world, but all come 
takes walks to the place they used to go together be- with their own risks. 
fore she moved out. They promised each other they’d As the fae-touched enters the Hedge, her change-
always come here once a year to catch up. He feels a ling counterpart is presented with an opportunity for 
sense of her here, and lets his mind wander as he sits escape. Maybe his Keeper is distracted, the final part of 
for hours before his mother calls him home. One day, his plan is realized in that moment, or he suddenly gains 

Becoming Fae-Touched 311



bargains for the life of the changeling. She somehow 
pulls on an ancient Contract and forces the Gentry to 

Escape! release them both. Another story has the changeling 
use the fae-touched as a stepping stone, passing her to 

Before bringing new fae-touched characters the Gentry to ensure his own escape. More grim stories 
into a game or starting a new game with tell that when the Avowed arrives at her destination, 
them, try running one-on-one sessions with the changeling’s True Fae captor catches the new mor-
players to allow them to experience their char-
acters’ first foray into the Hedge. This helps tal, too, and bends her to his will.
the player decide what kind of promise her Sometimes, the fae-touched never makes it far 
character made, how she entered the Hedge, within the Hedge, but instead gets distracted from her 
and what she got out of the journey. It also path. She may encounter a hobgoblin who entices her 
helps her set Aspirations for her character, as away and makes her forget her goal. She may simply get 
well as get a feeling for how far the character overwhelmed by the Hedge and lose sight of why she 
will go in order to fulfill her promises. came. She spends so long there that she cannot imag-
The player should make her full fae-touched ine leaving. When this happens, her only hope is that a 
character, but ignore her fae-touched tem- changeling comes across her, as eventually one Gentry 
plate for the first part of the session. She is or another notices her presence and takes her. 
a normal human at first, until she enters the Changelings in the Hedge who see an Avowed 
Hedge. At that point, she gains her fae- know that her chances of escape alone are slim. While 
touched template, as well as any Merits with no one wants to deprive a fellow changeling of any ad-
a fae-touched prerequisite, and a full Glam- vantage he might have to break free of his bonds in 
our pool. Faerie, helping the human is a much more immediate 
This presents a good opportunity to introduce concern. Of course, they are also concerned with the 
key changeling Storyteller characters and incredible boon of having a fae-touched owe her life to 
setting elements directly into a character’s the changeling. Some changelings dedicate their time 
background and make them important to the to entering the Hedge, seeking out Avowed, and help-
Avowed. Work with the player to craft an ing them escape.
escape story that makes sense for the types of An unlikely — though possible — way for the fae-
stories she wants to see in play. touched to return to the normal world is to simply walk 

out. This usually only happens after the fae-touched 
has strayed from her original path and begins wishing 
for a way out. If she is somehow unhindered or un-

the strength of will he previously lacked. At this mo- touched, her attachment to Faerie slowly leads her on a 
ment, the changeling is faced with a decision to leave, new path out of the Hedge. Only the most strong-willed 
and if he takes it, he is set on his path of escape. The and lucky fae-touched escape the Hedge this way, and 
paths opened within the Hedge to the Avowed lead her doing so forges a connection to the Wyrd all her own.
to cross paths with the changeling. If all goes well, their 
paths intersect somewhere deep in the Hedge and they When the Avowed finally escapes, she is forever 
help each other escape into the mortal world. changed, much like a changeling. She is not truly a 

changeling, since she was never captured and has no 
Things don’t always go well. Sometimes, their paths seeming. She does have a tie to Faerie through the 

do not cross. Something stops the changeling from es- Wyrd, though, gained in the Hedge and forming a 
caping Faerie. Maybe he is thwarted in his escape, or tenuous bond to where she once was. She is no longer 
dies in the attempt. Sometimes, despite the impetuous- completely human, yet she is much more connected to 
ness his friend’s presence lends, the changeling simply human society than her changeling counterparts. 
chooses to remain in captivity, unable to bolster his 
will to escape at that time. In rare cases, the change- Call of the Wyrd
ling has already escaped, and the fae-touched is simply 
following a dead trail to his former True Fae captor. Glamour surrounded and infused the Avowed 
In these cases, she may end up following her path to when they entered the Hedge. Each forms a tiny con-
Faerie, only to get captured herself. nection to this power, and wields it while he’s there, 

using it to clear a path through the brambles and lead 
A few stories relate that when a fae-touched and him to his promise-bound changeling. Though he is not 

her changeling’s paths intersected, they were far too changed to the same degree that she is, he undergoes a 
close to Faerie, and the changeling’s escape had not forging process that leaves him with a permanent con-
yet been completely decided. In one story, the Avowed nection. He has a Wyrd rating and can utilize Glamour 

312 Appendix One: The Fae-Touched



in much the same way as a changeling can, though he time, and the fae-touched is much more likely to get 
is not as powerful. lost or taken if she returns unsupervised.

This connection to the Wyrd is twofold. It 
strengthens the bond between the fae-touched and Fae-Touched  
the changeling with whom he shares a promise, and in Changeling  
it imbues him with a modicum of fae power. The bond 
between changeling and fae-touched is dangerous, as Society
it continues to pull at the Avowed, beckoning him to Changelings represent a real-world connection that 
return to the Hedge and seek her out. Not only that, a fae-touched human has with whatever happened to 
but the link gives him an awareness of the changeling her while she was in the Hedge. She is still very human, 
he never had before. He can sense her wellbeing and and little about her life before the Hedge has changed. 
her pain, and he often experiences visions of her while Where a changeling had his entire life yanked out from 
she’s in Arcadia. under him — his home and loved ones lost to a fetch, 

The connection to the Wyrd that gives the Avowed and time dilated in weird ways — the Avowed returns 
his power can also be dangerous to him. On his first to a world exactly as she left it. Her family is still there, 
trip into the Hedge, the Wyrd filled him and gave him her house just the same. Her job may have missed her 
power in what felt like a hopeless situation. The Glam- for a few days, but otherwise everything she once knew 
our of the place entered him easily and changed him. is still in place. She could easily return to her life with 
In the real world, Glamour is hard to come by, and his no one the wiser, except for the fae-touched herself.
power over reality is regulated to whatever Contracts Knowing that doesn’t make it easy to do. She has 
he can learn. When he escaped the Hedge, it left him gained insight into a fantastical and dangerous world 
with a fraction of the fae magic he previously had at his outside her own. She has a connection to a society of 
disposal and has no understanding of what to do with supernatural creatures. She knows now that the person 
it. While he does have a Glamour pool he can access, to whom she kept her promise was captured, and she 
the fae-touched does not inherently understand how to sees the fetch for what it is. For her, everything has 
harvest more — this is a skill someone must teach him. changed, and while on the surface everything looks 
What’s worse is that the fae-touched finds the inexpli- normal, she realizes nothing ever really was. 
cable draw to the Hedge that brought him to this point Many fae-touched find it difficult to go back to 
did not go away after he left the Hedge; instead, it has their normal lives; few people willingly insert them-
only grown stronger. selves into a situation they know to be false. Some react 

A fae-touched feels a longing to return to the poorly to the knowledge that a fetch replaced someone 
Hedge, to soak up all the Glamour she can, and to use they know, and attempt to out its true nature or even 
that power. The Wyrd pulls at her, beckoning her to kill it. Other humans regard the Avowed with fear and 
return to Faerie and continue her search for her friend, misunderstanding, assuming she suffered a psychotic 
and to become one with the fae. Even if she reunites break. To a certain extent, she has, but not in a way 
with her promise-bound changeling, this feeling can- people can understand. A few return to their lives, liv-
not be abated. Where a changeling has the ground- ing alongside fetches, biding their time until they can 
ing experience of captivity and being forced to endure begin their search again.
what felt like a lifetime of servitude in the presence Some want to be close to changeling society, hoping 
of all that power, a fae-touched has only the experi- that the Lost are the key to finding the ones they yearn 
ence of longing and seeking. This is not to say that to find. If an Avowed reunites with her promise-bound 
she is unaware of the dangers of Faerie, as she is likely changeling, then she wants to stay connected. Another 
to have met her own challenges while in the Hedge. might fear the changelings and only want interaction 
Instead, her experiences and subsequent changes are if she believes they will lead her to her promised one. 
not as drastic, meaning the draw of the Wyrd can take On top of all that is her constant, unbreakable desire 
a stronger hold within her. No amount of explaining or to return to the Hedge and regain the power she had 
understanding can abate the desire; only a strong force there, or to search once again for the person she lost.
of will keeps her from leaping back into the brambles 
at every chance. The Avowed present a unique paradox to change-

lings. The True Fae never took these people and they do 
With guidance and assistance, an Avowed can not know the horrors of a durance, yet they have been 

learn to harvest Glamour from humans and use her exposed enough to see past the Mask. The Avowed 
power in a controlled manner. Those who do not con- have the ability to do something the changeling can 
trol themselves find that the draw into the Hedge even- never do — return to their previous lives — yet many 
tually takes them there. It’s never the same as the first refuse to do so completely.

Fae-Touched in Changeling Society 313



Despite these stark differences, the Avowed is also 
a comrade, someone who survived the dangers of Faerie 
and changed because of it. She may have even been 
the catalyst for a changeling’s escape. She is someone 
driven by devotion and someone the Lost can trust.

By the very nature of being Avowed, she has prov-
en a willingness to keep important promises. Not only 
that, but she has shown the will and strength it takes to 
see beyond the lies spread by the True Fae in an effort 
to keep those promises. Even if an Avowed were noth-
ing more than that, her presence would be a comfort to 
the changeling, yet she has much more value. She rep-
resents an intermediary between the changeling and 
the mortal world. He does not have to hide his true 
nature from her and she can help him relate to humans. 
She has an understanding of his fae concerns, even if 
she does not share in all of them, and she can assist in 
endeavors both in and out of the Hedge.

While a changeling is likely to want an Avowed 
around, he doesn’t necessarily believe she should be 
exposed to the entirety of the freehold and the soci-
ety they have built. Most changelings prefer to keep 
the fae-touched at a distance, contacting them only in 
times of need or want. The fae-touched wants the op-
posite. She wants to connect to the people that under-
stand all her conflicting emotions more than she wants 
to resume a mundane life. She wants to be involved 
and to continue to assist her loved one despite his best 
intentions for her.

When the fae-touched do find the changelings to 
whom they made their promises, these interactions are 
complex, but more easily defined than the alternative. 
The changeling still owes this person his part of the 
promise, though few fae-touched care much if he ful-
fills it at this point. Changelings feel immensely grate-
ful to their Avowed counterparts, and often feel obli-
gated to them, no matter what their promise was. Even 
a promise of revenge or payback turns into a treasured 
relationship for the changeling, though the fae-touched 
may not feel so nostalgic without the experience of cap-
ture and torture at the hands of the Gentry. Either way, 
the Avowed and the changeling are intricately bound 
to each other, making their relationship one of at least 
mutual respect and understanding, if not outright com-
panionship. 

The relationships between the fae-touched and 
changelings are as complex and varied as the people 
composing them. For some changelings, the Avowed 
are nothing more than people with some extra knowl-
edge; for others, they are friends and confidants. Some 
changelings find relating to the Avowed easier than re-
lating to mundane humans, and prefer their company 
over anyone else’s. Some resent them and their rapid 
escape from the horrors of Faerie, and want nothing to 

314 Appendix One: The Fae-Touched



do with them. Some simply see them as one more tool, Some fae-touched do enter into oaths to join a 
someone they can use to gain an advantage. And a court, usually because their promise-bound is a mem-
lucky few changelings find a loved one in the Avowed, ber. The kind of protection it would offer a change-
someone they believed lost to them forever. ling is unnecessary for her, but she does gain the other 

System: Changelings and Avowed gain a few spe- benefits. Few changelings treat her as a full member, 
cial benefits from reuniting after both their escapes though. She often remains in the lowest ranks of the 
from the Hedge. First, the two immediately enter into court, simply allowing her oath to be all that she needs 
a personal oath (p. 213), with terms the Wyrd decides to gain the minimum protection of the freehold. She 
if the characters don’t swear the oath deliberately. may participate in Bargain rituals and symbolism, but 
These terms should ref lect the nature of the origi- rarely gains an official position and can’t gain dots of 
nal promise and how their relationship has (or hasn’t) Mantle.
changed since then. The oath grants these specific 
benefits: Either character may harvest Glamour from Oath Keepers
the other, and either may spend a point of Glamour Keeping a promise is important to both change-
to sense the other’s general physical and emotional lings and Avowed. For changelings, trust and keeping 
state, and her rough distance and direction, wherever their word is imperative, especially among others like 
she may be. them. For the fae-touched, keeping a promise is a mat-

ter of integrity and personal honor, no matter to whom 
Within the Freehold she makes that promise. Few fae-touched ever break 

A city with a well-established freehold is bound their word when it’s given, and they take even the sim-
to have several fae-touched within its scope of inf lu- plest agreement seriously. If a fae-touched forsakes an 
ence. How the changelings deal with those Avowed oath, her fellows never forgive her, even if she is able 
depends on which courts make up the freehold. Most to redeem herself in the eyes of the Wyrd and change-
courts prefer to extend aid and assistance to the fae- ling society. A changeling who breaks her word is even 
touched without formally accepting them into the free- worse, in the eyes of the Avowed. Every fae-touched 
hold. Instead, individual members of the freehold take knows the only reason she is connected to the Wyrd is 
on each fae-touched as an apprentice or vassal, helping because of someone she loves who is trapped in Arca-
her master her Wyrd while keeping her confidences. dia, and the shared promise they have between them. 
Certain courts associated with protection or love may Her hope is to one day free her friend and reunite, and 
freely accept the fae-touched into their lives without the strength of her word is the only thing that contin-
question. Even if the freehold does not consider the ues to give her hope. If her loved one were to lose that 
Avowed a full member, they often extend protection promise, or worse, go back on the agreement they made 
and aid when she needs it. so long ago, what would become of their connection? 

Such an idea is horrifying to most fae-touched, and few 
Changelings view having the Avowed around as contemplate that line of thinking for very long. 

a boon to the freehold. A fae-touched is likely to be a 
calming presence in an otherwise-tumultuous environ- Some fae-touched hone the control they have over 
ment. She is partially fae, but does not suffer the constant the Wyrd to seek out information about oaths and 
hounding of the Wild Hunt. Her connections to the mor- promises, monitoring who owes what and who might 
tal world set her apart from the changelings, and make have broken their vows. If an Avowed finds someone 
her a valuable ally. Those who gain acceptance into the who has broken a promise, especially to a human or fae-
freehold find themselves in the middle of political intrigue touched, she takes it upon herself to punish the oath 
and courtly gossip. The fae-touched’s favor is not neces- breaker. Some freeholds employ such Avowed to moni-
sarily sought so much as bought, and her connections are tor minor pledges between lesser members of the courts 
exploited by any bold enough to try. and report misconduct to the monarchs. Others simply 

work on their own, taking punishments into their own 
The Courts hands, even if such action would be ill-advised. 

A fae-touched who has spent a great deal of time Outsiders
around changelings tends to get more embroiled in their 
concerns. Yet she has no one hunting for her, and she is Some fae-touched find changeling freeholds and 
in no danger of someone dragging her back to a True Fae courts hard to follow. The Avowed understand prom-
captor (at least, no more so than any human being). There ises all too well, and some are reluctant to ever promise 
is no pressing reason for an Avowed to officially join the anything to a changeling without a dire need. Pledges 
changeling courts, and as such rarely do. and oaths are too grave to enter into, and the frequen-

cy with which changelings use the Wyrd to seal deals 

Fae-Touched in Changeling Society 315



drive others to rash action. Whatever the cause, the 
fae-touched makes a conscious decision to enter the 

Those Who  Hedge, no matter the cost. Maybe the dreams of her 
Do Not Know loved one overwhelm her, and she is bound and deter-

mined to seek him out; maybe she is starved of Glam-
Not all fae-touched escape the Hedge into our and believes she can find more there; or maybe she 
the hands of the Lost. Those who fight to free is just drawn to the power of Faerie and no longer has 
themselves may not even realize that such the willpower to resist the urge to go. 
a thing as the changelings exist. Even when 
presented with changeling society, they have These fae-touched gravitate toward one another, 
a hard time accepting the Lost as any part of somehow unconsciously drawn to those most likely to 
humanity. They view changelings as they do assist them in their goals. Some changelings speculate 
anything else from the Hedge: dangerous and that the Wyrd draws them together, its pull on them 
not to be trusted. heightened when they congregate in groups, like living 

conduits for its demands. They band together with a 
similar mission: Find a way back into the Hedge. The 
changelings call them Key Smiths, for they seek out 

can be daunting to someone so sensitive. Such a re- gate keys. 
sponse can cause the Lost to shun the Avowed, unable Fae-touched know they cannot open and enter 
to understand why she refuses to pledge her word to Hedgeways on their own, not without some kind of gate 
them freely. key or a changeling to let them in. Some groups spend 

In these cases, the fae-touched band together on their time searching out natural Hedge gates and the 
the outskirts of changeling society, making up their keys associated with them. They map every place they 
own lesser society based on unspoken words and mu- see someone enter or leave the Hedge and they pump 
tual understanding. The fae-touched tend to gravitate the changelings for information about keys. Sometimes 
toward one another — in much the same way they the groups petition changelings for assistance, hoping 
gravitate toward the Hedge — though no outward ap- to trade favors for entrance into the Hedge.
pearances betray their nature. These fae-touched prefer More impatient groups don’t want to wait to map 
each other’s company over that of other humans, and out gates or hope for changeling help. These groups act 
they view changelings as vapid and self-absorbed. They out in terrible ways. Sometimes they take over change-
seek solace in each other and shy away from changeling ling holdings or kidnap people close to the Lost, de-
society. They hold no ill will toward changelings and manding entrance into the Hedge in return for whatev-
deal one on one with them in certain circumstances, er they took. Other, more severe groups hunt down and 
but otherwise remain separate from the freehold and capture a changeling, forcing him to open a gate for 
courts. them on pain of iron. Usually, they need entrance and 

Many changelings are horrified to realize that exit Hedgeways, so hostage situations do not resolve 
it isn’t only they who have Avowed waiting for them until they’ve finished their mission into the Hedge.
somewhere in the mortal world — nothing stops a hu-
man who has promised something to a privateer or a The Hunted
loyalist from becoming fae-touched, and such people Under normal circumstances, a fae-touched does 
usually become tools and weapons in the hands of the not have to worry about anything hunting her and re-
freehold’s enemies. Some Lost find it difficult to blame turning her to Arcadia. She was never in the keeping of 
these Avowed — after all, they too swore to stand by the Gentry, and they have no idea she is anything other 
their changeling companions, no matter how vile their than a mere mortal. She is more human than she is fae, 
actions — but most treat them just as they would any unaffected by a fae mien. The True Fae do not purpose-
agent of the Gentry: with fear and contempt. fully send their Huntsmen after a fae-touched, and she 

Key Smiths may go her whole existence without encountering one, 
if she’s lucky. Despite this, she does have access to the 

When the desire to return to the Hedge completely Wyrd — no matter how muted — and appears fae to 
overtakes an Avowed, she turns volatile and dangerous the senses of those who dwell in Faerie. For this reason, 
to both herself and changelings. Giving in to desires she may gain the wrong attention if she is not careful.
is not a psychotic break. She looks and acts like her Every now and then, the fae-touched does some-
usual self, but like an addict out of control, she does thing to gain the attention of the Gentry or their 
irrational and dangerous things to get her fix. Some Huntsmen. Maybe she’s just in the wrong place at the 
give in easily to this desire, where impatience might wrong time. Commonly, it is because the Avowed find 

316 Appendix One: The Fae-Touched



it hard to steer clear of Faerie, and tend to become em-
broiled in conflicts even when they aren’t trying to. 
Maybe she spends too much time with a particularly Using Loyal  
irksome changeling. Maybe she’s been in and out of the Fae-Touched
Hedge unscathed one too many times.

No matter what causes the Fae to notice her, once A fae-touched with motivation to capture 
it happens, she can’t shake their interest. Some fae- a changeling rarely has the means to do 

so. She is reluctant to approach other fae-
touched find themselves hunted as relentlessly as any touched, since they may try to talk her out 
changeling, having caught the eye of a curious True of keeping her deal or hurt her to prevent 
Fae. The best-case scenario is that they consider her her from enacting any plans. She may pair 
an annoyance slated for death; the worst-case scenario with a loyalist changeling who is much more 
is that the True Fae is interested in her and wants her capable. A changeling and an Avowed work-
brought in for investigation. ing together are more dangerous than either 

Sometimes she only gains the notice of a Hunts- alone.
man, but in many cases, this could be worse. A Hunts- Fae-touched working against changeling soci-
man may dismiss her as a regular human, or decide to ety can be extremely disruptive, since they are 
kill her to get at the changeling it is hunting. It may so well known for their honesty and loyalty, so 
decide she’s a useful tool: Maybe she can lead it to the use them with caution.
changelings, or be a bargaining chip if the Huntsman 
kidnaps her. It may offer her a deal, something she des-
perately wants, to sell out her friends. Of course, taking 
such a deal would make her a traitor, but denying it exchange for knowledge about the changelings in the 
may get her killed. nearby freehold. 

Fae-touched rarely know when they’ve attract- Some fae-touched have even less heartening sto-
ed the attention of a fae creature until it’s too late. ries. During her first voyage into the Hedge, one fol-
Changelings caution Avowed to be wary, since they lowed a path that led her deep into the heart of a Gen-
can’t initiate oaths and thus have no way of stopping try’s domain. Within, she found her promise-bound 
a Huntsman once it’s on their trail. Having a hunted Lost. She tried to free him, but his True Fae master 
Avowed around can be a liability, but few changelings caught her. Through whatever arcane Contracts guided 
would abandon someone to whatever fate the True Fae this Gentry’s actions, she was spared for the time being. 
have planned for them. Usually, such a predicament It proposed a deal: If she returned to Earth, collected 
encourages the freehold to increase their security and any one other changeling, and brought him back to it, 
bring the Avowed more tightly into their fold. it would let her loved one go. She shook on it and went 

The Loyal back, so elated to have a way to save him that she didn’t 
recognize she never made a deal for her own life and 

The most important thing to a fae-touched is find- freedom.
ing her missing loved one. It is what drives her and 
preoccupies her. The life she leads on Earth is one of Tales
pensive waiting, hoping that one day she can reunite Avowed have a place in changeling stories as both 
with him. She does what she can to assist changelings allies and antagonists. Fae-touched may play a large 
in hopes that someone will do the same for him. She part in a changeling’s life, posing a constant source of 
follows the changelings into the Hedge in hopes that strife and conflict, or an amazing source of aid and in-
they may find a chance to rescue him. And, if offered formation. Changelings are certain to run into many 
a chance to save him, she would abandon all else to fae-touched in their lifetimes, and the fae-touched may 
do so. be responsible for helping someone out of the Hedge at 

Sometimes, this fierce loyalty works against the a critical moment.
fae-touched in ways she would never expect. If a True 
Fae discovers such a weakness in the ranks of change- The Promise  
ling society, it wastes no time seizing it as an opportu- Collector
nity. They court and deceive the Avowed, promising a 
chance to free her loved one, or just to see him once Stevie is an Avowed member of the freehold. She’s 
again in return for information or an outright betrayal. a bit of a legend in her own right. Some say she showed 
Huntsmen make deals with the fae-touched to trade up one day out of the Hedge and went straight away 
bits of truth about where her changeling is kept in to the courts to pledge herself to the freehold. No one 

Tales 317



knows if she came fresh out of the Hedge or if she had there. Through their bond, Pedro witnesses Walter’s 
somehow found her way to the freehold from elsewhere, struggle through the Hedge each night while dreaming. 
but she’s been a fixture ever since. She doesn’t belong The only way to truly help Walter is to enter the Hedge 
to a court, and she wields very little inf luence over the to help Pedro find him and bring him back out. 
changelings, but she commands a great deal of respect. 
Everyone seems to have some kind of deal with her, Playing a  
even if it’s something as simple as a polite agreement 
to leave each other alone. She’s notorious for sealing Fae-Touched
statements on all of her agreements, no matter how The Avowed have an important place within 
large or small. changeling society. The portrayal of fae-touched mem-

The characters have met Stevie at least once, but bers of the freehold is more than simply playing the 
they don’t have any active deals with her. When she lackey or following orders. Avowed have a connection 
goes missing, they don’t really think anything of it. Ru- to the Wyrd and are complex individuals. The decision 
mors crop up that she’s disappeared into the Hedge, but to play a fae-touched character in a changeling cam-
no one seems to know where she’s gone. Days later, ev- paign should be discussed not only with the Storyteller, 
eryone in the court is struck by terrible nightmares and but also with the other players. Those players should 
phantom pains. Something happened to Stevie, and consider how their characters view and interact with 
the Wyrd somehow connected everyone in the freehold the fae-touched, and which one of them, if any, the 
to her pain through her pledges to them. Almost ev- Avowed is bound to. A fae-touched character’s story 
eryone in the freehold is debilitated by the pain. The can serve to bring a cohesive element to an otherwise-
characters must race to rescue Stevie before something disparate group. 
worse happens to her, and through her bonds, the rest 
of the freehold. Creating a  

Fae-Touched
Dark Dreams A character becomes fae-touched when she enters 

A newly escaped changeling, Pedro, has taken the Hedge in search of someone with whom she shares 
shelter within the freehold. He complains of terrible a promise. At that time, she is invested with the Glam-
nightmares each night. He is being chased down in our of Faerie and takes a little piece of the Wyrd with 
the Hedge by foul creatures made up of the brambles. her when she leaves.
Each morning he awakens in sweats. At first, every- To create a fae-touched character, use the same 
one believes he is experiencing trauma from his recent guidelines for creating a character found on p. 89, but 
escape, but as the nightmares get more intense each don’t add the Lost template, and use Integrity instead 
night, he seeks assistance. of Clarity. Afterward, make the following modifications 

Pedro asks the characters to help him quiet his to the character. Be sure to look at the fae-touched 
dreams. The first night, they enter his dreams in dream Merits presented later in this chapter.
form, simply riding the dream and watching what hap- Note that the Avowed share many traits with 
pens. The first half of the dream is mundane and nor- changelings, but they are not changelings. Some traits 
mal, but at some point in the night the dreams take a are completely unique to changelings. If an advantage 
stark turn, completely dissolving from Pedro’s dreams- or trait is not listed below, do not assume fae-touched 
cape into an even more twisted and dark version of the characters gain it.
Hedge. As they watch, hobgoblins chase a man onto 
Pedro’s path. The man begs Pedro to help him, but Pe- Add Fae-Touched Traits
dro seems completely distressed by his presence. Pedro Promise: All fae-touched have a promise that ei-
tries to fend him off, but cannot. When the dream ends, ther they, or someone in their family from whom they 
Pedro explains that the dream is the same every night. inherited it, made to a changeling. This promise shapes 
He reveals that he recognizes the man: His name is how the character views and interacts with the world. 
Walter and they were best friends before he was taken. Whenever the Avowed takes actions that fortify her 
Pedro says he’s felt a strange connection to Walter ever promise, she gains a one-die bonus to perform those 
since his durance, and it’s only gotten stronger since actions. Some Merits may add additional benefits based 
he’s escaped. In fact, it was the memory of Walter that on the type of promise she’s made. 
gave him the strength to free himself.

Wyrd: Wyrd ref lects the small amount of Faerie 
Pedro is bound to a fae-touched human who en- the character can channel into the world. Fae-touched 

tered the Hedge on the same day that he escaped. Pe- characters have an effective Wyrd rating of 0, though 
dro found his own way out, but Walter was trapped 

318 Appendix One: The Fae-Touched



they are capable of utilizing some of its benefits. A fae- Contracts
touched cannot increase her Wyrd rating above 0. Fae-touched can learn and use any Contracts, in-

Contracts: Select a favored Regalia for the char- cluding Court Contracts, with a few restrictions.
acter and two Common Contracts within it. The char-
acter cannot start with Royal Contracts, but you can •	 A fae-touched must be taught new Contracts, 
spend Experiences to purchase them in play at the and cannot learn them on her own. She follows 
same rate as a changeling. the same restrictions for Court Contracts 

as a normal changeling, and must have 
Advantages enough dots of Court Goodwill to pur-

chase any (p. 150).
Glamour: A fae-touched character can uti-

lize Glamour much like changelings can. She •	 Fae-touched do not automatically 
can bank up to 10 Glamour inside her and gain access to a Contract’s seeming ben-
spend one point of Glamour each turn. She efits. She must spend Experiences to learn 
can only harvest Glamour from people’s any seeming benefit, and a changeling 
emotions or through Hedge bounty, as must teach it to her via Pupil’s Devotion 
she is normally incapable of entering (p. 129). 
other people’s dreams. Other fae crea-
tures can harvest Glamour from a fae- •	Fae-touched characters do not un-
touched. When this happens, she loses derstand enough about the nature of 
Glamour from her own pool to the being Faerie to use Loopholes in Contracts.
who harvested from her. 

Pledges: The Avowed are capable of Drawbacks
using their Wyrd to witness sealings. They Being fae-touched carries 
are still subject to sealings from changeling its own dangers and drawbacks, 
characters, and they cannot attempt to use uniquely separate from those 
sealings on changelings or other fae creatures. changelings suffer.
Additionally, changelings and Fae can forge Susceptible to Delirium: Her 
oaths with fae-touched characters, carrying time in the Hedge left the character 
all the benefits and drawbacks somewhat disturbed. All fae-touched 
associated with these. Fae- characters suffer from the Madness 
touched characters cannot ini- Condition (p. 343) at character cre-
tiate oaths with anyone other ation. If an Avowed enters the Hedge 
than a changeling, including after resolving the Condition, she 
other fae-touched characters immediately regains it.
or Huntsmen. If a changeling 
creates a bargain with a fae- Additionally, the character 
touched character, he does suffers from the Arcadian Dreams 
not gain the benefit of addi- and Hedge Addiction Conditions 
tional concealment that he (p. 333 and p. 340, respectively). 
would with an ordinary mor-
tal. Fae-Touched 

Oneiromancy: Fae- Merits
touched characters nor- The following Merits 
mally cannot engage in are available for fae-touched 
oneiromancy on their characters. Changelings and 
own. They do not share a mundane humans should 
changeling’s innate abil- not purchase these Mer-
ity to pass through the Gate of Ivory into their its without approval from the 
own dreams, nor can they take dreamweaving Storyteller. Fae-touched may also possess 
actions. Some do have latent talents to enter dots in Court Goodwill, Glamour Fast-
and affect dreams, though, represented as Merits, ing, and Hollow (though she must always 
and some can enter the dreams of others with the purchase this as part of a motley), as well as any hu-
Dreamsteps Contract (p. 144). man Merits.

Playing a Fae-Touched 319



Dream Shaper (••) Promise of Debt (• to •••)
Prerequisites: Fae-touched, Lucid Dreamer Prerequisite: Fae-touched
Effect: Your character is not only capable of lu- Effect: A debt lies between your character and an-

cid dreaming, but can make changes. She may take other, and he aims to see it resolved. The debt is not 
dreamweaving actions (p. 217), but only within her own necessarily monetary, though that is the most common 
dreams. kind; it may instead be a service debt or a life debt. 

Whenever the character attempts to resolve a debt, 
Expressive (•) whether his own or someone else’s, gain a dice bonus 

Prerequisite: Non-changeling equal to his dots in this Merit to all rolls made in ser-
Effect: Your character was always more expres- vice to the resolution.

sive than the people around him, and his time in the Promise of Love (• to •••)
Hedge gave him a deeper understanding of his own 
emotions, which are particularly nourishing to fae crea- Prerequisite: Fae-touched
tures. When harvesting Glamour from your character Effect: Your character promised to always love 
through his emotions, a fae being gains two Glamour another. When he disappeared, she knew immediate-
points per success instead of one. ly that his fetch was wrong somehow and she went in 

search of him. Her devotion drives and supports her. 
Find the Oathbreaker (••) Gain a dice bonus equal to her dots in this Merit to 

Prerequisites: Fae-touched, Sense Vows rolls to contest mundane or supernatural attempts to 
Effect: Your character’s devotion to her own prom- manipulate her emotions toward another person.

ise makes her sensitive to other people’s vows. She can tell Promise of Loyalty (•••)
whether someone has broken their word, even if it is some-
thing as simple as a verbal promise. She counts as a change- Prerequisite: Fae-touched
ling for purposes of the Oathbreaker Condition (p. 343). Ad- Effect: Your character would do anything for an-
ditionally, if the character touches a target, she can measure other, and she for him. They have no secrets from one 
the depths of his dishonesty. Her player rolls Wits + Empa- another, and he could never lie to her. When she forgot 
thy to determine whether the target has broken any promises simple truths about their relationship, he knew some-
or reneged on any deals in the recent past. The character thing was wrong. He never questioned his friend; in-
senses one promise the target has broken per success rolled stead, he went searching for answers and found she was 
within the last 24 hours, or within the last week if it was a missing. He values honesty and loyalty above all else 
pledge bound with Glamour. She knows in general what the and it shows in everything he does. Reduce the number 
oath was about and how the target broke it. of Doors his opponents have in Social maneuvering by 

one whenever he’s banking on their previous relation-
Hedge Delver (•••) ship or shared history.

Prerequisites: Fae-touched, Survival •• Promise of Protection  
Effect: Your character’s desire to return to the (• to •••••

Hedge is tempered by her understanding of the dan- )
gers. She gains two bonus dice to teamwork rolls she Prerequisite: Fae-touched
makes to aid a changeling in navigating the Hedge. Effect: Your character told him she would always 
Additionally, she is capable of Hedgespinning actions be there for him and make sure he was safe. She didn’t 
(p. 204), but only to make subtle shifts. even know he had been taken when she started looking 

Oathkeeper (•••) for him, her protective nature guiding her. She knows 
deep down that everyone is vulnerable and needs a 

Prerequisites: Fae-touched, Resolve ••• little protection. Whenever she protects someone other 
Effect: The Wyrd has bolstered your character’s than herself, gain a bonus to your Initiative modifier 

desire to keep her promises beyond her own strength equal to her dots in this Merit, and reduce any Defense 
of will. Whenever you spend a Willpower point on a penalties from multiple attacks in a turn by one.
roll to contest any mundane or supernatural attempt Promise to Provide (•••
to convince her to do something that would make her )
break her sworn word, either from a sealing or an oath, Prerequisite: Fae-touched
gain four dice instead of three, and you achieve excep- Effect: Your character promised he would always 
tional success on three successes. have room in his home for her, no matter when she needed 

320 Appendix One: The Fae-Touched



it. He kept a guest room always available, even when he bonus dice in addition to those generated by her rolled 
could barely afford a two-room apartment. He keeps her successes to the primary actor’s roll.
things in there, just the way she likes them. He prides 
himself on his hospitality, and the Wyrd has strengthened Punish the Oathbreaker (••)
his resolve to ensure he always has an open home and Prerequisites: Fae-touched, Find the Oathbreaker
hearth. Whenever he offers hospitality to someone, he Effect: Your character takes his own promises seri-
may spend a point of Glamour to enforce it for the rest of ously, and the idea that someone else might not offends 
the chapter. Anyone who accepts must then spend a Will- him to his core. He may use Loopholes to activate Con-
power point to break his hospitality by harming him, his tracts that would impact an oathbreaker negatively and 
allies, or his home. Anyone who accepts and doesn’t try to directly, as long as he reads their broken promises with 
break his hospitality instead regains a point of Willpower Find the Oathbreaker first. Contracts that affect a group 
at the end of the chapter. of people or the environment do not gain this benefit.
Promise to Serve (• to •••) Sense Vows (•)

Prerequisite: Fae-touched Prerequisite: Fae-touched
Effect: Maybe your character agreed to name her Effect: Your character’s dedication to her promises al-

firstborn child after her brother, or promised that she lows her to sense when the Wyrd was invoked to seal one. By 
would take his children in as her own if he ever died. spending a point of Glamour while interacting with some-
No matter what the agreement, after she lost touch one, she can determine whether that person made any prom-
she stayed true to her word and followed through. She ises through sealings, oaths, or bargains within the current 
needs something to do with herself, something to give story. She cannot tell the details of the promise, though she 
her life direction and purpose. Whenever she is part of knows what kind of pledge the character is sworn to, and the 
a teamwork action, she adds her dots in this Merit as general idea of what was promised.

Playing a Fae-Touched 321



Armor
Type Rating Strength Defense Speed Availability Coverage

Modern
Reinforced 1/0 1 0 0 • Torso, arms, legs
clothing*
Kevlar vest* 1/3 1 0 0 • Torso
Flak jacket 2/4 1 −1 0 •• Torso, arms
Full riot gear 3/5 2 −2 −1 ••• Torso, arms, legs

Archaic
Leather (hard) 2/0 2 −1 0 • Torso, arms
Chainmail 3/1 3 −2 −2 •• Torso, arms
Plate 4/2 3 −2 −3 •••• Torso, arms, legs

Rating: Armor provides protection against normal attacks and firearms attacks. The number before the slash is for 
general armor, while the number after the slash is for ballistic armor.
Strength: If a character’s Strength is lower than that required for her armor, reduce her Brawl and Weaponry dice 
pools by one.
Defense: The penalty imposed on a character’s Defense when wearing the armor.
Speed: The penalty to a character’s Speed when wearing the armor.
Availability: The cost in Resources dots or the level of Social Merit needed to acquire the armor.
Coverage: The areas of a character protected by the armor. Unless an attacker targets a specific unarmored location 
(see “Specified Targets,” p. 184), the armor’s protection applies. Wearing a helmet increases the armor’s coverage to 
include a character’s head.
* This armor is concealed, either as normal clothing (e.g. biker leathers) or from being worn under a jacket or baggy 
shirt. Attackers have no idea the target is wearing armor until after they land a successful hit.

322 Appendix Two: Equipment



Weapons
Melee Weapons Chart

Type Damage Initiative Strength Size Availability Special
Sap 0 −1 1 1 • Stun
Brass Knuckles 0 0 1 1 • Uses Brawl to attack
Baton 1 −1 2 2 n/a
Crowbar 2 −2 2 2 •
Tire Iron 1 −3 2 2 •• +1 Defense
Chain 1 −3 2 2 • Grapple
Shield (small) 0 −2 2 2 •• Concealed
Shield (large) 2 −4 3 3 •• Concealed
Knife 0 −1 1 1 •
Rapier 1 −2 1 2 •• Armor piercing 1
Machete 2 −2 2 2 ••
Hatchet 1 −2 1 1 •
Fire Axe 3 −4 3 3 •• 9-again, two-handed
Chainsaw 5 −6 4 3 ••• 9-again, two-handed
Stake* 0 −4 1 1 n/a
Spear** 2 −2 2 4 • +1 Defense, two-handed
Stun gun 1 1 1 1 • Stun; bonus successes don’t 
(melee) add to modifier for damage

Type: A weapon’s type is a general classification that can apply to anything your character picks up. A tire iron might 
be any metal club, such as an antique mace, a metal baseball bat, or a hammer, while a hatchet might be a meat 
cleaver or an antique handaxe.
Damage: Indicates the number of bonus successes added to a successful attack. Weapons always deal lethal 
damage against ordinary people. The type of damage may vary against supernatural opponents.
Initiative: The penalty taken to Initiative when wielding the weapon. If using more than one weapon, take the higher 
penalty and increase by 1.
Strength: The minimum Strength needed to use a weapon effectively. A wielder with a lower Strength suffers a −1 
penalty on attack rolls.
Size: Size 1 items can be hidden in a hand; two Size 2 items can be hidden in a coat; Size 3+ items cannot be 
hidden.
Availability: The cost in Resources dots or the level of Social Merit needed to acquire the weapon.
Concealed: A character that wields a shield but doesn’t use it to attack can add its Size to his Defense, and uses its 
Size as a concealment modifier against ranged attacks.
Grapple: Add the chain’s weapon modifier to grappling dice pools.
Stun: Halve the victim’s Size when aiming for the head with intent to stun.
Two-handed: This weapon requires two hands. It can be used one-handed, but doing so increases the Strength 
requirement by 1.
* To pierce the heart, a stake must target it specifically (−3 to attack rolls) and must deal at least five damage in one 
attack.
** The reach of a spear gives +1 to Defense against opponents who are unarmed or wield weapons of Size 1.

Weapons 323



Ranged Weapons Chart

Revolver, light 1 20/40/80 6 0 2 1 •• SW M640 (.38 
Special)

Revolver, 2 35/70/140 6 −2 3 1 •• SW M29 (.44 
heavy Magnum)
Pistol, light 1 20/40/80 17+1 0 2 1 ••• Glock 17 (9mm)
Pistol, heavy 2 30/60/120 7+1 −2 3 1 ••• Colt M1911A1 (.45 

ACP)
SMG, small* 1 25/50/100 30+1 −2 2 1 ••• Ingram Mac-10 (9mm)
SMG, large* 2 50/100/200 30+1 −3 3 2 ••• HK MP-5 (9mm)
Rifle 4 200/400/800 5+1 −5 2 3 •• Remington M-700 

(30.06)
Assault Rifle* 3 150/300/600 42+1 −3 3 3 ••• Steyr AUG 

(5.56mm)
Shotgun** 3 20/40/80 5+1 −4 3 2 •• Remington M870 

(12-gauge)
Crossbow*** 2 40/80/160 1 −5 3 3 •••
Stun gun 1 5 1 0 1 1 • Taser Stun; bonus successes 
(ranged)*** don’t add to the 

modifier for damage
Pepper spray 0 1/2/3 n/a 0 1 1 • Stun; Penalty, deals 

no damage
Javelin 2 Thrown n/a −2 2 2 •••

Damage: Indicates the number of bonus successes added to a successful attack. Weapons always deal lethal 
damage against ordinary people. The type of damage may vary against supernatural opponents.
Ranges: The listed numbers are short/medium/long ranges in yards/meters. Attacks at medium range suffer a −1 
penalty. Attacks at long range suffer a −2 penalty.
Clip: The number of rounds a gun can hold. A +1 indicates that a bullet can be held in the chamber, ready to fire.
Initiative: The penalty taken to Initiative when wielding the weapon. If using more than one weapon, take the higher 
penalty and increase it by 1.
Strength: The minimum Strength needed to use a weapon effectively. A wielder with a lower Strength suffers a −1 on 
attack rolls.
Size: Weapons of Size 1 can be fired one-handed; Size 2 weapons must be fired two-handed and can be hidden in 
a coat; Size 3 weapons can be fired two-handed, but not hidden on one’s person.
Availability: The cost in Resources dots or the level of Social Merit needed to acquire the weapon.
Stun: Halve the victim’s Size when aiming for the head with intent to stun.
Penalty: Pepper spray inflicts a −5 to all actions, reduced by one for every turn the victim spends rinsing his eyes.
* The weapon is capable of autofire, including short bursts, medium bursts, and long bursts.
** Attack rolls gain the 9-again quality.
*** Crossbows and ranged stun guns take three turns to reload between shots (stun guns must replace the compressed 
air cartridge). A crossbow can also be used to deliver a stake through the heart (−3 to attack rolls; must deal at least 
five damage in one attack).

324 Appendix Two: Equipment

Type

Damage

Range

Clip

Initiative

Strength

Size

Availability

Example

Special



Services
Die Die 

Service Availability Bonus Service Availability Bonus

Academics Throwing an athletic •••• +4
competition

Historical specialist consulting ••• +3
Brawl

Research assistance from •• +2
grad students Arrange underground boxing ••• +2

ring
Translation of a dead ••• +2
language Bodyguard service ••• +3

Computer Self-defense classes • +1

Custom phone application ••• +2 Drive

Digital image enhancement •• +3 Chauffer •• +2

Graphic design/forgery •• +2 Stunt performance/mock ••• +3
crash

Crafts
Tour bus rental •••• +2

Antiquities restoration ••• +2
Firearms

Auto repair •• +3
Antique gun repair ••• +2

Custom equipment ••• +2
modifications Cover fire from gangs ••• +3

Investigation Procuring smuggled military •••• +2
arms

Consultation on evidence ••• +3
Larceny

Investigative photography ••• +2
Breaking and entering ••• +2

Private investigation/ •• +2
background check Security consulting ••• +2

Medicine Stealing a protected relic •••• +3

Black-market surgeon •••• +3 Stealth

Expert medical witness •••• +2 Strategic distraction ••• +3

Rush plastic surgery •••• +2 Tailing a suspect ••• +2

Occult Targeted vandalism •• +2

Esoteric consultant/sage •••• +3 Survival

Exorcist ••• +2 Field dress and preserve an ••• +1
animal

Protective amulets or wards •••• +1
Trail guide •• +3

Politics
Weatherproof a shelter •• +2

Campaign assistant ••• +3
Weaponry

Cutting red tape (read: bribe) ••• +2
Properly forged sword ••• +2

Spin doctor ••• +2
Identify wound from obscure ••• +2

Science weapon
Fact checking •• +3 Training in archaic warfare ••• +2
Falsifying research/coverup ••• +2 Animal Ken
Lab access •• +2 Buy a trained animal ••• +2

Athletics Identify animal droppings •• +1
Meditative assistance ••• +2 Rule out natural causes of ••• +2
Personal trainer ••• +3 death

Services 325



Die Die 
Service Availability Bonus Service Availability Bonus

Empathy Pickup artist ••• +2
“Good cop” interrogator ••• +2 Socialize
Neutral arbitrator ••• +2 Catering ••• or •••• +1 or 
Therapy session •• +1 +2

Expression Elocution consulting ••• +1

Document forgery ••• +3 Escort ••• +2

Ghostwriting •• +2 Streetwise

Motivational speech ••• +1 Arrange a rave or block party ••• +2

Intimidation Black market access •• +2

Anti-interrogation training •••• +3 Find crash space •• +1

“Bad cop” interrogator ••• +2 Smuggling contraband ••• +1

Deprogramming therapy ••• +2 Subterfuge

Persuasion Amateur actor/actress •• +2

Defense attorney ••• +3 Con artistry ••• +2

Hostage negotiator •••• +3 Gambling ringer ••• +2

326 Appendix Two: Equipment



Tilts come in two forms: Personal and Environmen- of Willpower each time he wants the character to take a 
tal. Personal Tilts only apply to one character, and include violent action in the fight. He can still run, Dodge, and 
ways in which that character can overcome the effect. En- apply Defense.
vironmental Tilts affect the whole scene, and offer ways Causing the Tilt: The character suffers bashing 
for individual characters to mitigate their effects. damage in excess of his Stamina or any amount of lethal 

damage. 

ARM WRACK Ending the Tilt: The character surrenders and gives 
the aggressor what he wants. At this point, the character 
regains a point of Willpower and takes a Beat, but can 

Personal take no further action in the fight.
Description: The character’s arm is painfully (and 

debilitatingly) injured.
Effect: The affected character drops whatever they’re BLINDED

holding in that arm and can’t use it to attack opponents. 
If this effect spreads to both limbs, roll only a chance die Personal
on any rolls that require manual dexterity, and take −3 to Description: The character’s eyes are damaged or 
all other Physical actions. removed.

Causing the Tilt: Supernatural power or targeted Effect: The character suffers a −3 penalty to any rolls 
blow (−2). that rely on vision. Increase to −5 and loss of all Defense 

Ending the Tilt: Mark an X under the leftmost if both eyes are affected.
Health box affected by the attack. The Tilt ends when Causing the Tilt: The normal way to inflict the Tilt 
the damage that caused it has healed.. is to deal damage to the target’s eyes, a specified attack 

with a −5 penalty (see Specified Targets, p. 184). An at-

BEATEN DOWN tacker can inflict temporary blindness by slashing at her 
opponent’s brow, throwing sand into his eyes, or kicking 
up dirt. This requires an attack roll of Dexterity + Ath-

Personal letics with a −3 penalty. (Defense applies.) If the attack 
succeeds, the target is Blinded for the next turn.

Description: The character has had the fight 
knocked out of him. Ending the Tilt: Mark an X under the leftmost 

Health box affected by the attack. The Tilt ends when 
Effect: The character cannot take active part in the the damage that caused it is healed.

fight without extra effort. The player must spend a point 

Tilts 327



Speed (and static Defense, if used) and a −3 penalty to all 

BLIZZARD rolls in combat. The character ignores wound penalties.
Causing the Tilt: If the character has chosen to take 

drugs, he suffers their effects. To administer drugs to an-
Environmental other character is a Dexterity + Weaponry attack, suffer-
Description: Heavy snowfall carpets the ground and ing a −1 modifier for the improvised weapon.

is whipped up by howling winds into a barrage of whirling Ending the Tilt: A generic narcotic lasts for (10 – the 
white. victim’s Stamina + Resolve) hours. Medical help halves 

Effect: Rolls to see things close to the character’s per- this time.
son suffer a −1 penalty. Each additional 10 yards/meters 
inflicts an additional −1 penalty (cumulative) on all vi-
sual Perception rolls. This penalty also applies to ranged EARTHQUAKE
attacks.

Every four inches of snow applies a −1 penalty to ap- Environmental
propriate Physical rolls, including combat rolls. 

Description: Everything shudders and shakes, and 
Causing the Tilt: For the most part, the weather is rents tear the ground wide open.

out of the characters’ control.
Effect: When the earthquake’s actually occurring, 

Ending the Tilt: Without supernatural powers, char- all Dexterity-based dice pools (and Defense) suffer a 
acters can’t end a blizzard. Proper equipment (such as gog- −1 to −5 penalty. Characters take between 1 and 3 
gles and snow boots) can add +1 to +3 to a roll, offsetting points of lethal damage per turn of the earthquake’s 
some of the penalties. duration. A ref lexive Stamina + Athletics roll down-

grades that damage to bashing — or cancels it on an 

DEAFENED exceptional success.
Causing the Tilt: Without tremendous supernatural 

power, it’s almost impossible to cause an earthquake. A 
Personal powerful explosion could create the same effect.
Description: The character can’t hear. Ending the Tilt: Earthquakes are quick events. It’s 
Effect: If the character is deaf in one ear, he suffers a very rare for one to last more than a minute (20 turns).

−3 penalty to hearing-based Perception rolls. A character 
struck deaf in both ears only gets a chance die on such 
rolls, and suffers a −2 penalty to all combat-related dice EXTREME COLD
rolls.

Causing the Tilt: A particularly loud noise within 10 Environmental (sometimes Personal)
feet of the character may cause temporary hearing loss, as Description: Bone-chilling winds bite through the 
though the character were deaf in both ears. Alternative- character, or trudging through knee-deep snow takes all 
ly, a targeted attack on the ear — at a −4 penalty — can of the sensation from his limbs.
deafen a character.

Effect: When the temperature is below freezing, 
Ending the Tilt: Deafness caused by loud noises characters can’t heal bashing damage. Supernatural be-

fades after (10 − the victim’s Stamina + Resolve) turns. ings and characters who heal faster than normal halve 
Mark an X under the leftmost Health box affected by the their normal healing rate. For every hour that a character 
attack. The Tilt ends when the damage that caused it is is affected, he accrues a −1 penalty to all rolls. When 
healed. that penalty hits −5, he instead suffers a point of lethal 

damage per hour.

DRUGGED Causing the Tilt: A frozen environment, a walk-in 
freezer, etc.

Ending the Tilt: Find a source of warmth or warm 
Personal clothing. A character who has hypothermia requires med-
Description: The character’s mind is addled by ical attention.

mind-altering substances.
Effect: A generic narcotic can be represented with 

one set of modifiers; the character suffers a −2 modifier to 

328 Appendix Three: Tilts



Ending the Tilt: Characters can escape flooding by 

EXTREME HEAT getting to high ground, which is enough to mitigate this 
Tilt.

Environmental (sometimes Personal)
Description: The character might be stumbling HEAVY RAIN

through the desert with the sun beating down on him, or 
running through the steam tunnels surrounding an old Environmental
boiler room. This Tilt can also be the result of a debilitat-
ing fever. Description: Torrential rain lashes down in knives.

Effect: Characters can’t heal bashing damage. Su- Effect: Heavy rains cause a Perception penalty of −3 
pernatural beings and characters who heal faster than dice to Perception rolls. 
normal instead halve their normal healing rate. For ev- Causing the Tilt: Short of a supernatural power or a 
ery hour that a character is continuously affected by this fleet of cloud-seeding aircraft, Heavy Rain is the result of 
Tilt, he accrues a −1 penalty to all rolls. When that pen- natural weather patterns.
alty hits −5, he instead suffers a point of lethal damage Ending the Tilt: The best way out of the rain is to 
per hour. get indoors.

Causing the Tilt: This Tilt is usually caused by en-
vironmental factors — being out at noon in the desert, or 
spending too long in a sauna or forge. HEAVY WINDS

Ending the Tilt: Get out of the heat. In a desert or 
similar environment, finding shade is paramount. Environmental

Description: Howling winds buffet at the characters.

FLESH TOO SOLID Effect: Heavy winds are loud, so characters suffer a 
−3 modifier to aural Perception rolls. Also, the wind in-
flicts a penalty to all Physical rolls. Grade the wind from 

Personal one to five; one is tropical-storm level (around 40 MPH), 
Description: The character becomes too immersed three is hurricane level (around 80 MPH), and five is tor-

in dreams. Physical sensations are even more vivid than nado level (150+ MPH). The wind’s grade represents the 
in the waking world, but dream wounds leave real scars. penalty applied to Physical dice rolls. Characters outside 

Effect: Whenever the character would suffer Dream take bashing damage each turn equal to the wind’s rating. 
Health damage, she suffers equivalent physical Health Characters can make a reflexive Dexterity + Athletics 
damage instead. roll to avoid damage. 

Causing the Tilt: Suffering a dramatic failure on Causing the Tilt: Heavy winds are a fact of life, from 
oneiromantic actions and Contracts. siroccos in the desert, to tornados in the Midwest US, to 

wind shears everywhere.
Ending the Tilt: The Tilt normally lasts until the 

end of the scene. Ending the Tilt: Getting out of the wind is the best 
way to end this Tilt.

FLOODED ICE
Environmental Environmental
Description: Some liquid has risen enough to im-

pede the character’s progress. Description: The ground’s covered in a layer of ice 
that sends wheels spinning and people’s feet flying out 

Effect: Each foot of liquid inflicts a −2 penalty to all from under them.
Physical dice pools. If the water goes up over her head, 
the character has to swim (Dexterity + Athletics). Al- Effect: Divide the character’s Speed in half. All Phys-
ternatively, she can try to hold her breath (Stamina + ical rolls (and Defense) suffer a −2 penalty. Attempting 
Composure). to move at full Speed increases the Physical penalty to 

−4. Any dramatic failure on a Physical roll inflicts the 
Causing the Tilt: Normally, this Tilt is the result of Knocked Down Tilt. When driving halve Acceleration, 

heavy rain, sudden snowmelt, or a broken water main. and take a −5 penalty to Drive rolls.

Tilts 329



Causing the Tilt: This Tilt applies to any surface 
that’s slick and slippery, including a spill of industrial lu-
bricant or just a well-polished wooden or linoleum floor. INSANE

Ending the Tilt: “Get off the ice” is good advice, but 
that can take work. Characters can use heat or fire to Personal
melt ice, or throw down copious quantities of salt or grit Description: The character suffers from a panic at-
to increase traction. tack, sudden imbalance, or a full-on psychotic break.

Effect: The character gains a +1 bonus to all combat 

IMMOBILIZED rolls, but takes actions after everyone else. A character 
suffering from this Tilt cannot spend Willpower in com-
bat, and suffers a −3 penalty to all Social rolls.

Personal Causing the Tilt: Any character with an appropriate 
Description: Something holds the character fast, Condition may acquire the Insane Tilt. The Storyteller 

preventing him from moving. can call for a Resolve + Composure roll to resist a general 
anxiety that gnaws at the character’s mind.

Effect: The character can’t do anything. He can’t 
apply Defense against incoming attacks, and can’t take Ending the Tilt: The specific effects of this Tilt don’t 
combat-related actions. If someone’s holding him down, normally last beyond the end of the scene. To end earlier, 
he can spend a point of Willpower to deliver a head butt roll Resolve + Composure as an instant action, contested 
or similar attack. by a dice pool of (10 − her Willpower). Take no other ac-

tions this turn, and don’t apply Defense to attacks.
Causing the Tilt: The usual way to inflict this Tilt is 

through the Restrain grappling move.
Ending the Tilt: An Immobilized target can break INSENSATE

free by escaping from a grapple or snapping whatever 
binds her. If held by an item, the character must make a 
Strength + Athletics roll penalized by the item’s Durabil- Personal
ity. Take a −2 penalty for restrained limbs; increase to −4 Description: The character shuts down, either due to 
if hogtied. A success breaks free. Each roll, successful or extreme fear or sudden pleasure.
not, deals a point of bashing damage. Effect: The character can’t take any actions until the 

Tilt is resolved. He can apply Defense to incoming at-

INFERNO tacks, and if he takes any damage from an attack, the Tilt 
ends.

Causing the Tilt: Several supernatural powers can 
Environmental leave their victim in a trance-like state of heightened 
Description: The area is on fire. Anything flamma- emotion. A hallucinogenic drug might have similar ef-

ble is either already burning or will be soon. fects; administering such a drug is a Dexterity + Weap-
onry attack, which suffers a −1 modifier.

Effect: All characters suffer a −2 to all rolls due 
to smoke and heat. After two turns, any character that Ending the Tilt: The Tilt wears off at the end of the 
breathes also suffers 2B per turn due to smoke inhalation. scene. The victim can spend a point of Willpower before 
After three turns, the character also suffers 1L per turn then to act normally for one turn. A successful attack will 
from burns and must succeed on a Dexterity + Stamina also end the Tilt. If a character has been knocked insen-
roll each turn to avoid catching fire (see p. 190). sible by drugs, then when this Tilt ends it is replaced with 

the Drugged Tilt.
Causing the Tilt: Objects or people catching fire and 

letting it spread can cause this Tilt, as well as supernatu-
ral powers or particularly volatile explosions. KNOCKED DOWN

Ending the Tilt: Different types of fire re-
quire different methods to extinguish; in gen-
eral, cutting off the fire from its fuel sources does Personal
the trick. Water, carbon dioxide, sand, and baking Description: Something knocks the character to the 
soda can be useful, depending on the size and type of the floor.
fire. Eventually all fires burn themselves out, but that can Effect: The character is knocked off her feet. If she 
be cold comfort in the aftermath of a destructive blaze. hasn’t already acted this turn, she loses her action. Once 

she’s on the ground, a character is considered prone. The 

330 Appendix Three: Tilts



character can still apply Defense against incoming at- Causing the Tilt: Ingesting a poison inflicts this Tilt. 
tacks, and can attempt to attack from the ground at a −2 Injecting an opponent with a poison counts as a Dexterity 
penalty. + Weaponry attack, and suffers a −1 modifier.

Causing the Tilt: A melee weapon (damage modi- Ending the Tilt: Immediate medical attention. Roll 
fier +2 or greater), or a firearm (damage modifier of +3 Stamina + Resolve as a reflexive action each turn. If the 
or greater) can knock a character down. A close combat character intends to act, the roll suffers a −3 penalty. Suc-
attack with a targeted attack against the legs (−2 modi- cess counteracts the damage for one turn.
fier) can knock someone down. If successful, the target is 
knocked down, but takes only half damage.

Ending the Tilt: Standing up takes an action. A SICK
character who hasn’t yet acted can make a Dexterity + 
Athletics roll, minus weapon modifier. If successful, she Personal
avoids the effects of this Tilt.

Description: The character suffers from nausea, fe-
ver, or related symptoms.

LEG WRACK Effect: A sickness is either “moderate” or “grave.” A 
moderate sickness causes a −1 penalty to all actions dur-
ing combat. That penalty increases by 1 every two turns. 

Personal A grave sickness inflicts the same dice penalties as a mild 
Description: Pain or numbness in the leg sickness, plus 1 point of bashing damage per turn.
Effect: If their leg is broken, sprained, or dislocated, Causing the Tilt: Exposure to disease either from 

halve the character’s Speed and suffer a −2 penalty on living sources or sample.
Physical rolls that require movement (and Defense). If Ending the Tilt: Penalties fade at a rate of one point 
both legs are wracked, the character falls over — taking per turn once the character has a chance to rest. Any 
the Knocked Down Tilt. Speed is reduced to 1; moving damage remains until the character can heal.
precludes other actions. Physical rolls that require move-
ment are reduced to a chance die.

Causing the Tilt: A character can have their leg STUNNED
knocked out by a targeted blow to the leg (−2 penalty) 
that deals more damage than their Stamina. Personal

Ending the Tilt: If the Tilt is inflicted as a result of 
an attack, mark an X under the leftmost Health box af- Description: The character is dazed and unable to 
fected by that attack. The Tilt ends when that damage think straight.
that caused it has healed. Effect: The character loses her next action, and 

halves her Defense until she can next act.
Causing the Tilt: A character can be stunned by any 

POISONED attack that does at least as much damage as their Size in 
a single hit. Some weapons have a “stun” special ability. 

Personal These double the weapon modifier only for the purposes 
of working out whether the attacker inflicts the Stunned 

Description: Poison is tearing the character apart Tilt. Attacks against the target’s head count the charac-
from the inside. ter’s Size as 1 lower.

Effect: A poison is either “moderate” or “grave.” A Ending the Tilt: The effects of this Tilt last one turn. 
moderate poison causes 1 point of bashing damage per The character can end the Tilt during their own action by 
turn. A grave poison deals 1 point of lethal damage per reflexively spending a point of Willpower, a but −3 modi-
turn. fier applies to any actions they take that turn.

Tilts 331



Personal Tilts
Tilt Effects
Arm Wrack One arm: Drop anything held, suffer off-hand penalties for most rolls. Both arms: Chance die on 

rolls requiring manual dexterity, −3 to other Physical actions.
Beaten Down Cannot take violent action in combat without spending Willpower.
Blinded One eye: −3 to vision-related rolls. Both eyes: −5 to vision-related rolls, lose all Defense.
Deafened One ear: −3 to Perception rolls. Both ears: Chance die on Perception rolls, −2 to combat rolls.
Drugged −2 Speed, −3 to combat rolls (including Defense and Perception). Ignore wound penalties.
Flesh Too Solid Take physical Health damage instead of Dream Health damage.
Immobilized No combat actions. Can’t move or apply Defense.
Insane +1 to combat rolls, act after everyone else, −3 to Social rolls, can’t spend Willpower.
Insensate No combat actions. Can move and apply Defense. Taking damage ends the Tilt.
Knocked Down Lose action this turn (if it hasn’t been taken), knocked prone. Can apply Defense, attack from 

ground at −2.
Leg Wrack One leg: half Speed, −2 penalty on Physical rolls for movement. Both legs: Knocked Down, give 

up action to move at Speed 1, movement-based Physical rolls reduced to chance die.
Poisoned Moderate: One point of bashing damage per turn. Grave: One point of lethal damage per turn.
Sick Moderate: −1 to all actions. Penalty increases by 1 every two turns. Grave: As moderate, but 

also inflicts one point of bashing damage per turn.
Stunned Lose next action. Half Defense until the characters next acts.

Environmental Tilts
Tilt Effects
Blizzard −1 penalty to visual Perception and ranged attack rolls, increased by 1 per 10 yards/meters. −1 

penalty to Physical rolls per four inches of snow.
Earthquake Penalty to Dexterity rolls depending on severity. Take one to three lethal damage per turn, 

Stamina + Athletics downgrades to bashing.
Extreme Cold Bashing damage doesn’t heal. −1 penalty to all rolls, increasing by 1 per hour. At −5, further 

hours deal one point of lethal damage.
Extreme Heat Bashing damage doesn’t heal. −1 penalty to all rolls, increasing by 1 per hour. At −5, further 

hours deal one point of lethal damage.
Flooded −2 to Physical dice pools per foot of flooding. Once water is over head, character must swim or 

hold breath.
Heavy Rain −3 to aural and visual Perception rolls.
Heavy Winds −3 modifier to aural Perception rolls. Winds rated between 1 and 5, severity acts as penalty to 

Physical rolls and deals that much bashing damage per turn, Dexterity + Athletics to avoid.
Ice −2 Speed, −2 to Physical actions. Can move at normal speed but −4 Physical actions. Dramatic 

Failure causes Knocked Down; Drive rolls are at −5 and half Acceleration. 
Inferno −2 to rolls. After 2 turns, 2B damage per turn. After 3 turns, 1L per turn and may catch fire.

332 Appendix Three: Tilts



The list below provides some common Conditions that Resolution: You regain your memory and learn the 
you can apply to characters throughout the chronicle. truth. Depending on the circumstances, this may consti-

tute a breaking point.

ADDICTED (PERSISTENT) Beat: Something problematic arises, such as a for-
gotten arrest warrant or old enemy.

Your character is addicted to something, whether 
it’s drugs, gambling, or other destructive behaviors. She ARCADIAN DREAMS 
needs to indulge her addiction regularly to keep it un- (PERSISTENT)
der control, and it takes over her life. Choose a specific 
addiction upon taking this Condition; characters can Until her promise-bound is safely out of Arcadia, the 
take this Condition multiple times for different addic- fae-touched is plagued with dreams and visions of him. 
tions. Being unable to feed the addiction results in the She always has an awareness of him in the back of her 
Deprived Condition. mind. If she is in the Hedge, she has a general knowledge 

Possible Sources: Alcoholism, substance abuse. of what direction to travel in to reach him and gains a 
Resolution: Gain or lose a dot of Integrity, or achieve one-die bonus to navigate the Hedge toward him. She 

exceptional success on a breaking point; for changelings, can feel his pain as though it were her own.
increase maximum Clarity, or achieve exceptional suc- Beat: The player chooses to fail any roll. These failures 
cess on a roll to contest a fae power. occur due to sudden, distracting suffering by proxy, or due 

Beat: Your character chooses to get a fix rather than to a poignant reminder of one of her visions in the current 
fulfill an obligation, or causes significant complications situation, which the player can come up with on the fly.
for her motley by indulging her addiction. Resolution: The Avowed reunites with her promise-

bound, or he dies before that can happen, in which case 
she knows about it immediately. The latter constitutes a 

AMNESIA (PERSISTENT) breaking point for the fae-touched character.

Your character is missing a portion of her memory. 
An entire period of her life is just gone. This causes mas- AWESTRUCK (PERSISTENT)
sive difficulties with friends and loved ones.

Changelings with this Condition add two dice to Your character sees before her a glorious and ter-
Clarity damage rolls. rifying figure, and something in her brain kicks her to 

Conditions 333



kneel and grovel. She suffers a –2 to attack rolls against action scene, she suffers the drawbacks of the Blinded 
the Condition’s source. She also suffers a –3 to contested Tilt (p. 327). This Condition may be temporary, but if 
rolls against Social actions from the source, and a –3 to that’s the result of a combat effect, the Blindness Tilt 
her Composure or Resolve against actions and powers would apply instead.
the Condition’s source uses against her. Resolution: Your character regains her sight.

Changelings with this Condition add two dice to Beat: Your character encounters a limitation or dif-
Clarity damage rolls. ficulty that inconveniences her.

Possible Sources: Compulsion from supernatural 
powers, oneiromancy.

Resolution: Your character has no contact with the BONDED
Condition’s source, whether face-to-face, over the phone 
or text, or via Bastion, for one full scene. Your character has established an extensive bond 

Beat: Your character takes an action that serves the with an animal. She gains +2 on any rolls to influence or 
demands of the Condition’s source. persuade the animal once per scene. The animal may add 

your Animal Ken to any rolls to resist coercion or fear 
when in your character’s presence. The animal may add 

BERSERK your character’s Animal Ken to any one die roll.
Example Skills: Animal Ken

Your character has a spark of berserk rage lit within Resolution: The bonded animal dies.
her. The fury inside demands that she lash out, and the 
descending red mist makes it hard to tell friend from foe. 
Each turn, she must succeed at a Resolve + Composure BROKEN (PERSISTENT)
roll or attack the nearest target with whatever weapons 
she has to hand. Even if she succeeds, she suffers a −3 Whatever your character did or saw, something in-
penalty on all actions other than attacking the nearest side him snapped. He can barely muster up the will to do 
target. his job anymore, and anything more emotionally intense 

Changelings with this Condition add one die to than a raised voice makes him flinch and back down. 
Clarity damage rolls. Apply a −2 to all Social rolls and rolls involving Resolve, 

Possible Sources: Some supernatural powers. and a −5 to all use of the Intimidation Skill.
Resolution: The character becomes unconscious or Possible Sources: Severe Clarity damage in any of 

there are no targets left to attack. your three rightmost boxes.
Resolution: Regain a dot of Integrity, lose another 

dot of Integrity, or achieve an exceptional success on a 
BESTIAL breaking point; for changelings, increase maximum Clar-

ity, or achieve exceptional success on a roll to contest a 
Your character acts on primal, physical impulses. fae power.

Frightening things make him run. He meets aggressive Beat: Your character backs down from a confronta-
threats with violence and anger. Take a –2 to all rolls to tion or you fail a roll due to this Condition.
resist physical impulse. As well, take a –2 to Defense due 
to impulsive action. Any rolls to compel your character 
to impulsive, aggressive action or escape achieve excep- COMATOSE
tional success on three successes instead of five. 

Possible Sources: Some supernatural powers. Your character has reached rock bottom. She has 
Resolution: Cause damage in someone’s last three lost any ability to distinguish reality from fantasy, and 

Health boxes. has gone into a deep dream. She believes she is awake, 
living her life perfectly normally, but is instead lying in a 
coma. She cannot roll to enter the Gate of Ivory (p. 215) 

BLIND (PERSISTENT) and dream lucidly without help. If this Condition came 
about through mild Clarity damage, events in her dream 

Your character cannot see. Any rolls requiring sight may lead her to resolve another Clarity Condition even 
may only use a chance die. If she could reasonably sub- though she doesn’t realize she’s dreaming, allowing her 
stitute another sense, make the roll at −3 instead. In an to wake up. If it came about through severe Clarity dam-

age, even this doesn’t wake her. If someone can convince 

334 Appendix Four: Conditions



her that she’s actually dreaming, through oneiromancy or able to regain Connected with the specified group per 
some other method, she can claw her way back to wake- Storyteller approval.
fulness. Example Skills: Politics, Socialize

Possible Sources: Reaching Clarity 0. Resolution: The character loses her membership or 
Resolution: The character regains Clarity, or she re- otherwise loses her standing with the group.

alizes she is in a dream and awakens, regaining a point Beat: The character is asked to perform a favor for 
of Clarity as normal. In the case of severe damage, the the group that inconveniences her.
only way to resolve this Condition is for the changeling 
to realize her dreaming state, which requires someone to 
come and rescue her. Any other Clarity Conditions she COWED
may have resolved during this time increase her Clarity 
as normal, but do not resolve this Condition. Your character has been put in her place through the 

violence and dominance of another. She suffers a −2 penalty 

COMPETITIVE on any Physical and Social rolls to oppose the character who 
inflicted this Condition if she does not spend Willpower.

Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
Your character must assert dominance and superior- Clarity damage rolls.

ity. Either she gives it her all, or she falters. Any time 
she’s in direct competition with another character, she Possible Sources: Having another character demon-
suffers a –2 die penalty on any rolls where she doesn’t strate her superiority to you, some supernatural powers.
spend Willpower. This includes contested and extended Resolution: The character successfully injures or 
rolls. As well, any rolls to tempt or coerce her into com- intimidates the character who inflicted the Condition, 
petition achieve exceptional success on three successes or the character regains Willpower through her Needle.
instead of five.

Possible Sources: Bedlam. DELUSIONAL 
Resolution: Win or lose a competition where some-

one reaches a breaking point. (PERSISTENT)
Your character believes something that isn’t actually 

CONFUSED true — maybe he thinks that someone is poisoning his 
food, that a fetch has replaced his daughter, or that some-

Your character cannot think straight, either because thing lives in the shadows of his apartment. He doesn’t 
of some mental power or good old-fashioned cranial actually hallucinate images that reinforce his delusion; 
trauma. You take a –2 die penalty on all Intelligence and he may believe that he’s covered in spiders, but just look-
Wits rolls. ing at himself is enough to clarify matters. Germs, on the 

other hand…
Possible Sources: A blow to the head, some dra-

matic failures, mild Clarity damage in any of your three He can’t truly repress his belief, but spending a point 
rightmost boxes. of Willpower lets him come up with an explanation (al-

beit one that sounds psychotic when he explains it to 
Resolution: Take half an hour to focus and clear someone else) as to why his delusion does not apply to a 

your mind, or take any amount of lethal damage. specific situation.
Possible Sources: Losing your last Touchstone, se-

CONNECTED vere Clarity damage in any of your three rightmost boxes.

(PERSISTENT) Resolution: The character completely disproves his 
delusion, or gains a new Touchstone.

Your character has made inroads with a specified Beat: The character adheres to his paranoid belief 
group. While she has this Condition, she gets a +2 to despite evidence to the contrary.
all rolls relating to that group. Alternately, she can shed 
this Condition to gain a one-time automatic exceptional 
success on the next roll to influence or otherwise take DEMORALIZED
advantage of the group. Once Connected is resolved, the 
character is considered to have burned her bridges and Your character is demoralized and hesitant in the 
is no longer an accepted member. The character may be face of the enemy. Spending a Willpower point only adds 

Conditions 335



one die to her pool for attacks instead of the usual three. Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
She also suffers a −4 penalty to her Initiative, and a −2 Clarity damage rolls.
penalty to her Resolve and Composure whenever used to Resolution: The character finds something to help 
resist or contest a dice pool. her orient herself to her surroundings, such as a familiar 

If this Condition doesn’t resolve within a week, it landmark or a friend. If a supernatural power caused this 
fades. Condition, then it resolves when the power ends.

Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
Clarity damage rolls.

Possible Sources: Dramatic failure. DISSOCIATION
Resolution: Achieve exceptional success on an at-

tack roll, win a fight, or survive a fight unharmed. Your character questions whether she is even real. 
She experiences episodes where she feels like a passenger 
in someone else’s body, unable to control her own thoughts 

DEPRIVED or actions. Sometimes she goes long hours simply watching 
herself, wondering how much of what she sees is real, and 
how much is memory of her time in Arcadia. Any time the 

Your character suffers from an addiction. Because character has a chance to break with the mundane, such as 
your character is without it, she’s unable to focus and using a Contract, you can opt to fail the roll to affirm that 
contain herself. Remove one die from her Stamina, Re- she’s in the real world and resolve this Condition.
solve, and Composure dice pools. This does not influ-
ence derived traits; it simply influences dice pools that Possible Sources: Mild Clarity damage in any of 
use these Attributes. your three rightmost boxes, some dramatic failures.

Possible Sources: Failing to feed an addiction, run- Resolution: The player chooses to fail a roll as de-
ning out of Glamour. scribed above.

Resolution: Your character indulges her addiction 
or, if she gained this Condition by reaching Glamour 0, DISTRACTED
gaining any Glamour.

Constant confusion and distractions buffet your 

DISABLED (PERSISTENT) character from all sides. She cannot take extended ac-
tions, and suffers a –2 die penalty to all rolls involving 
perception, concentration, and precision.

Your character has limited or no ability to walk. 
Her Speed trait is effectively 1. She must rely on a Possible Sources: Being in a highly confusing envi-
wheelchair or other device to travel. A manual wheel- ronment, mild Clarity damage in any of your three right-
chair’s Speed is equal to your character’s Strength and most boxes.
requires use of her hands. Electric wheelchairs have Resolution: Leaving the environment; if inflicted by 
a Speed of 3, but allow the free use of the character’s Clarity damage, regaining all Willpower.
hands. An injury can cause this Condition temporarily, 
in which case it is resolved when the injury heals and the 
character regains mobility. DREAM ASSAILANT

Resolution: Mundane or supernatural means cure 
the character’s disability. Your character has caused too many significant 

Beat: Your character’s limited mobility inconve- shifts to the dreamscape, and the eidolons are now ac-
niences your character and makes her slow to respond. tively hostile to you. You take a −5 to any roll to interact 

with them peacefully or do anything unnoticed, and all 
failures that involve eidolons your character isn’t fight-

DISORIENTED ing are dramatic failures. Reduce all eidolon impressions 
of you to Hostile for Social maneuvering. All paradigm 
shifts cost two additional successes to enact, and you 

Your character cannot get her bearings and dealing can’t enact subtle shifts at all.
with simple tasks is daunting. The character is at a −2 
penalty to any Physical action. She can defend herself If you resolve this Condition by interacting with an 
normally, but her disorientation prevents her from mak- important eidolon or prop, choose one of the following 
ing ranged attacks at all. effects to impose on the dreamer or any effect from a 

milder Shift Condition, which persists after he wakes:

336 Appendix Four: Conditions



•	 Deliver a subliminal command; he will perform use an important prop in a way that’s directly related to the 
any one specific action of your choice within 24 waking change you want to make. Only relevant eidolons 
hours of waking. and props count, subject to Storyteller discretion.

•	 Leave subliminal Manipulation clues as Dream In-
filtrator, but roll Wits + Empathy + Wyrd instead. DREAM INFILTRATOR

•	 Grant or remove one dot of any Mental or Super-
natural Merit for the rest of the story, as long as Your character has caused a significant shift to the 
the subject meets the prerequisites. dreamscape, and the eidolons are now suspicious of you. 

You take a −2 to any roll to interact with them peace-
•	 Inflict the Ravaged Condition (p. 344). fully, or a −3 to do anything unnoticed. Reduce all eido-

lon impressions of you by one for Social maneuvering. All 
•	 Change one of the subject’s anchors or Aspirations subtle shifts cost one additional success to enact.

for the rest of the story, or add an additional one of If you resolve this Condition by interacting with an im-
your choice. portant eidolon or prop, choose one of the following effects 

•	 Inflict the Flesh Too Solid Tilt (p. 329) on the to impose on the dreamer, which persists after he wakes:
dreamer’s dream form. •	 Deliver a subliminal message; he will remember 
Possible Sources: Enact a paradigm shift in a dream. the information but not where it came from.

Resolution: Exit the dream and don’t return for one •	 Make a Wits roll and “store” successes as dice in 
week; reintegrate yourself into the dream by taking a num- the subject’s mind, for use as bonus dice on Manip-
ber of meaningful actions equal to the dreamer’s Resolve ulation-based rolls you make against him within 
without making any shifts to downgrade this Condition to the next chapter as you take advantage of sublimi-
Dream Intruder; or succeed at a meaningful action to influ- nal clues you left behind.
ence an important eidolon (or the subject’s dream self) or 

Conditions 337



•	 Impose or remove a Condition that changes the •	 Impose or remove one Persistent Condition that 
dreamer’s attitude toward your character or an- changes the dreamer’s mental state, behavior, or 
other, or behavior in general: e.g. Swooned, Lev- attitude toward someone or something: e.g. Obses-
eraged, Competitive, Paranoid, etc.; resolving a sion, Awestruck, Amnesia, Madness, etc.; resolv-
Condition this way grants Beats as normal. ing a Condition this way grant Beats as normal.

•	 Increase or decrease the Fortification rating of the •	 Make a Clarity attack against a changeling subject 
dreamer’s Bastion by 1 for the rest of the story. with a dice pool equal to your character’s Pres-

ence.
•	 Increase or decrease the dreamer’s impression of 

you or another character by two levels on the chart •	 Reduce the subject’s current Willpower or Glam-
for Social maneuvering (p. 192) our points by (your Presence + Wyrd) and gain 

that many points yourself, up to your usual maxi-
•	 Open Doors equal to your character’s Empathy for mum.

Social maneuvering against the dreamer toward a 
particular goal. •	 Increase or decrease one of the subject’s Mental or 

Social Attributes or Skills by 1 for the rest of the 
•	 Stop the dreamer from recovering Willpower dur- story.

ing this night’s rest.
Possible Sources: Enact a paradigm shift in a dream.

Possible Sources: Enact a paradigm shift in a dream. Resolution: Upgrade this Condition to another 
Resolution: Upgrade this Condition to another Shift Condition; exit the dream and don’t return until 

Shift Condition; exit the dream and don’t return until the dreamer wakes and sleeps again twice; reintegrate 
the dreamer wakes and sleeps again; reintegrate your- yourself into the dream by taking a number of meaning-
self into the dream by taking a number of meaningful ful actions equal to the dreamer’s Resolve without mak-
actions equal to the dreamer’s Resolve without making ing any shifts to downgrade this Condition to Dream In-
any shifts; or succeed at a meaningful action to influence filtrator; or succeed at a meaningful action to influence 
an important eidolon (or the subject’s dream self) or use an important eidolon (or the subject’s dream self) or use 
an important prop in a way that’s directly related to the an important prop in a way that’s directly related to the 
waking change you want to make. Only relevant eidolons waking change you want to make. Only relevant eidolons 
and props count, subject to Storyteller discretion. and props count, subject to Storyteller discretion.

DREAM INTRUDER EMBARRASSING SECRET
Your character has caused multiple significant shifts Your character has a secret from his past that could 

to the dreamscape, and the eidolons are now uncomfort- come back to haunt him. If this secret gets out, he could 
able with your presence. You take a −3 to any roll to be ostracized or maybe even arrested. If it becomes 
interact with them peacefully, or a −4 to do anything known, resolve this Condition and replace it with Noto-
unnoticed, and all failures that involve eidolons your riety (p. 343).
character isn’t fighting are dramatic failures. Reduce all Resolution: The character’s secret is made public, or 
eidolon impressions of you by two for Social maneuver- the character does whatever is necessary to make sure it 
ing. All subtle shifts and paradigm shifts cost one addi- never comes to light.
tional success to enact.

If you resolve this Condition by interacting with 
an important eidolon or prop, choose one of the follow- FATIGUED
ing effects to impose on the dreamer or any effect from 
Dream Infiltrator, which persists after he wakes: Your character has never been so tired in all her life. 
•	 Deliver a subliminal suggestion; he will perform Her eyelids are like millstones, her brain a cobwebbed 

one specific action of your choice within 24 hours mass of exhaustion. She’s reached that point where fa-
of waking, as long as it wouldn’t cause him to suf- tigue becomes a physical thing, and all she can think to 
fer a breaking point. do is close her eyes and rest, just for a moment. Every six 

hours, you must make a reflexive Resolve + Stamina roll 
•	 Leave subliminal Manipulation clues as Dream In- to remain awake. If you fail, your character passes out. 

filtrator, but roll Wits + Empathy instead. Even if you succeed, you suffer a cumulative −1 penalty 

338 Appendix Four: Conditions



to all dice pools (including rolls to stay awake). Long Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
periods of strenuous activity, like cross-country hiking, Clarity damage rolls.
fighting, or heavy labor increase the penalty to −2 or Possible Sources: Bedlam, some supernatural pow-
−3. Even then, a normal person can only go a number ers, coming face to face with a phobia.
of days without sleep equal to the lower of her Resolve or Resolution: The character escapes from the source 
Stamina, at which point she passes out. Once a Fatigued of his fear.
character passes out, she remains asleep for eight hours 
plus one additional hour for every six-hour period she 
stayed awake. Attempts to rouse her during this period 
suffer a penalty equal to the highest penalty the Fatigued FUGUE (PERSISTENT)
character suffered before passing out.

Something terrible happened. Rather than deal with it or 
Possible Sources: Staying awake for 24 hours, being let it break her, your character’s mind shuts it out. She is prone to 

dosed with a sedative or anesthetic, some supernatural blackouts and lost time. Whenever circumstances become too 
powers. similar to the situation that led to her gaining this Condition, 

Resolution: Sleeping, as described above, or the roll Resolve + Composure. If you fail the roll, the Storyteller 
power ends. controls your character for the next scene; your character, left 

to her own devices, seeks to avoid the conflict and get away 

FRAGILE from the area.
Possible Sources: Severe Clarity damage in any of 

your three rightmost boxes.
The equipment the character is using to aid his action Resolution: Regain a dot of Integrity, lose another dot 

won’t last long for some reason, whether because it’s an ob- of Integrity, or achieve an exceptional success on a break-
ject put together with duct tape and bubble gum, or because ing point; for changelings, increase maximum Clarity, or 
his relationship with the people involved sours, or because achieve exceptional success on a roll to contest a fae power.
his computer ends up suffering a blue screen of death and 
the data is corrupted. A plan may be Fragile because of dis- Beat: Your character enters a fugue state as de-
rupted communication between the characters, or because scribed above.
of an unexpected hurdle, etc. The equipment ceases to exist 
in any usable form after a number of uses equal to its cre- GLAMOUR ADDICTED 
ator’s dots in the Skill used to build it.

Possible Sources: Achieving a failure on a Build (PERSISTENT)
Equipment roll.

Resolution: The equipment falls apart one way or Your character is addicted to Glamour. This slowly 
another. Plans grant one Beat to each player whose char- takes over her life, and impedes functionality. She can go 
acter is involved when this Condition resolves. a number of days equal to her Resolve before needing to 

obtain Glamour again. She must harvest or reap a number 
of Glamour points equal to half her Wyrd (rounded up) dur-

FRIGHTENED ing that period, or suffer one lethal damage every day until 
she does and gain the Deprived Condition (p. 336). This 
is incredibly painful as her body consumes its own magical 

Something’s scared your character to the point energy to satisfy the hunger for Glamour. The mask cracks, 
where he loses rational thought. Maybe he’s just looked like a fractured mirror in which each piece shows a differ-
down at a 100-story drop, or seen a tarantula the size ent reflection of the fae underneath. This special type of 
of his fist crawling up his leg. Whatever the case, he damage cannot be prevented or healed by any means, nor 
needs to leave right now. His only priority is getting the can the character resolve the Deprived Condition, until 
fuck away from the thing that’s frightened him — to the changeling has supped upon Glamour once more.
hell with his stuff, his friends, and his allies. If some-
one tries to stop him from escaping, he’ll fight his way Add one die to Clarity damage rolls.
past them. He can’t approach the source of his fear or Possible Sources: Harvesting Glamour every day for 
act against it — and if the only way out involves going a week at Wyrd 6+
near the source of his fear, he’ll collapse on the ground Resolution: Achieve an exceptional success on a 
in terror. Supernatural creatures prone to loss of control roll to harvest Glamour.
must roll to avoid doing so. This Condition lasts until the Beat: Your character takes damage from not being 
end of the scene; suppressing its effects for a turn costs a able to harvest Glamour.
point of Willpower.

Conditions 339



Beat: The character collects Goblin Debt from an-
GOBLIN QUEEN other character, selling a Contract or making another 

kind of hobgoblin deal.
(PERSISTENT)

The character has risen far beyond ordinary gob- GUILTY
lins, and they scrape and bow before her. This Condition 
functions as Hedge Denizen (p. 340), except as follows: Your character is experiencing deep-seated feelings 
•	 The character’s Mantle rejects her. She cannot in- of guilt and remorse. This Condition is commonly the re-

voke her current Court Contracts, nor purchase sult of a successful breaking-point roll for mortals. While 
new ones. the character is under the effects of this Condition, he 

receives a −2 to any Resolve or Composure rolls to de-
•	 She gains the Status (Goblins) Merit at four dots. fend against Subterfuge, Empathy, or Intimidation rolls.

If the local Hedge holds any creatures who outrank Resolution: The character confesses his crimes and 
her, she immediately knows their assumed names and makes restitution for whatever he did.
titles.

•	 The character’s identity has so profoundly changed HEDGE ADDICTION 
that fae beings no longer add her Wyrd as bonus 
dice to track or find her. If she recovers her Icon (PERSISTENT)
while she’s a Goblin Queen, she can’t reintegrate 
it into herself. The Hedge draws the fae-touched character. If she 

is presented with an opportunity to enter the Hedge, 
•	 The Goblin Queen cannot leave the Hedge, except her player must succeed on a Resolve + Composure 

by wrapping pieces of it as a mantle around her, to roll to resist the temptation. This roll suffers a cumu-
travel into the mortal realm or Arcadia for up to a lative −1 penalty for each previous time the character 
number of hours per day equal to her Wyrd. She still has entered the Hedge during this story, to a maxi-
suffers the Deprived Condition in the real world. mum of −5.

•	 The Queen gains the Retainer Merit (p. 125) with Beat: The Avowed enters the Hedge, either because 
dots equal to her Wyrd, spread across as many in- he failed to resist the pull, or because he went willingly.
dividual Retainers as she likes up to a maximum Resolution: The character refrains from entering 
of five dots per Retainer. These retainers are all the Hedge for a full story. However, he regains this Con-
hobgoblins; see p. 257 for examples. The retainers dition if he ever does enter the Hedge again in the future.
are unquestioningly loyal and devoted to her.

•	 Changelings with this Condition add two dice to HEDGE DENIZEN 
Clarity damage rolls instead of one. (PERSISTENT)
Resolution: The Queen finds a human child and 

leaves him to take her place. The child immediately Having relied on Goblin Contracts too much or be-
gains the Goblin Queen Condition and all of her Retain- come too reliant on hobgoblin deals, the character be-
ers, who protect him until he comes of age to ascend the comes a goblin herself. She retains her normal change-
throne. The child remembers who abandoned him. ling benefits and weaknesses, except in these cases:

The character becomes what she once was again, •	 The changeling’s mien warps, growing closer to 
whether a changeling or otherwise. She takes on her old the appearance she had during her servitude in 
seeming, kith, and identity — also setting the Fae back Arcadia. She has one tell of the player’s choice, by 
on her trail. If the character was mortal previously, her which former friends and enemies might recognize 
player selects three dots of supernatural Merits for her, as her. 
she is irrevocably changed. The newly abandoned queen 
can use the same process to become human again as well. •	 The Storyteller can no longer spend her Goblin 
This resolution constitutes a Clarity attack with two dice Debt points. The character must work off her debt, 
for changelings, or a breaking point for others. per the resolution below.

Alternatively, if the character works off five points of •	 Arcadian Contracts are the birthright of all deni-
Goblin Debt, she resolves this Condition and regains the zens of Faerie, but the Hedge is its own in-between 
Hedge Denizen Condition instead.

340 Appendix Four: Conditions



place. The character can still buy and use Arca- player’s choice. If she is a Storyteller character, the 
dian Contracts, but pays for all of them as if they Storyteller may substitute Dread Powers for any of 
were in non-favored Regalia and may not circum- these (p. 253). She can switch them out each dawn 
vent this via Pupil’s Devotion. as above.

•	 Courts are changeling affairs, and the character no •	 The character can make deals, sell Contracts, and 
longer is one. The character keeps and can use her collect Debt as a hobgoblin. See p. 256 for details 
old Court Contracts, but cannot purchase new ones. on goblin deals.
She loses all other benefits of her Court Mantle.

•	 Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
•	 Whenever the sun rises over the Hedge, the Clarity damage rolls.

character can redistribute the set of Goblin 
Contracts she knows across any Goblin Con- Resolution: The character becomes what she was 
tracts she wants. If she had three Contracts as a again, or she embraces her new self to become a Goblin 
changeling, she can pick any three every morn- Queen (p. 340).
ing. Purchasing new Goblin Contracts still costs •	 Returning to What Was: The character pays off 
2 Experiences each. at least one Goblin Debt point. She cannot simply 

accept a disadvantage from the Storyteller, or use 
•	 Invoking Goblin Contracts as a Hedge Denizen tokens or other shortcuts to lose Debt points — 

does not incur Debt. she’s a goblin now, and must pay her Debt by seek-
•	 The character can leave the Hedge, but suffers ing out the goblin with whom she entered into the 

the Deprived Condition until she returns to the Contract, or any third party involved if that goblin 
Hedge or Arcadia. is dead or otherwise gone, and perform a task at his 

request. After that, she must heal a point of Clarity 
•	 If the character was mortal, or another non-change- damage; non-changelings must gain or lose a dot of 

ling unlucky enough to fall in with hobgoblins, she Integrity or an equivalent trait. She then becomes 
immediately learns three Goblin Contracts of the her old self again. 

Conditions 341



	 Any Debt she hasn’t worked off yet remains, as do Resolution: Your character uses her research to gain 
any new Goblin Contracts she learned. If she re- information; you resolve the Condition as described above.
turns to being mortal, she keeps one Goblin Con-
tract of the player’s choice, which she can invoke 
by taking one point of bashing damage to substi- INSPIRED
tute for each point of Glamour in its cost. Using 
Goblin Contracts racks up Goblin Debt again. Your character is deeply inspired. When your char-

acter takes an action pertaining to that inspiration, you 
•	 Embracing What Might Be: The changeling suffers may resolve this Condition. An exceptional success on 

two or more Clarity attacks, and takes Clarity dam- that roll requires only three successes instead of five, and 
age (or loses an equivalent trait) from at least one. you gain a point of Willpower.
She must also lose one Touchstone, which she can do 
by simply willing herself to forget it, although losing Example Skills: Crafts, Expression 
one in the usual ways counts also. She now resolves Resolution: You spend inspiration to spur yourself 
the Hedge Denizen Condition, and takes the Gob- to greater success, resolving the Condition as described 
lin Queen Condition instead. Since mortals have no above.
Touchstones, they can’t become Goblin Queens.
Beat: The character works off a point of Goblin 

Debt but can’t, or chooses not to, resolve this Condition LETHARGIC
via Returning to What Was.

Your character is drained and lethargic, feeling the 
weight of sleeplessness. With this Condition, your char-

HUNTED (PERSISTENT) acter cannot spend Willpower. As well, for every six 
hours he goes without sleeping, take a cumulative –1 to 
all actions. At every six-hour interval, make a Stamina 

Someone who poses a serious threat to the charac- + Resolve roll (with the penalty) to resist falling asleep 
ter’s safety and well-being, physically or emotionally (or until the sun next rises.
both), is after her. For changelings, it’s usually an agent 
of the True Fae, like a Huntsman or loyalist, or perhaps Possible Sources: Bedlam, extreme fatigue, “dying” 
their fetch. Whoever it is might be intent on direct vio- in dream form, escaping a crumbling Bastion.
lence, or simply wish to torment her. Resolution: Sleeping a full night.

Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
Clarity damage rolls.

Beat: The character’s persecutors find her. LEVERAGED
Resolution: The character stops her persecutors, Another character has blackmailed, tricked, con-

either through direct means like violence, or indirect vinced, or otherwise leveraged yours into doing what 
means like changes in lifestyle that deny them access to they wish. You may have the Leveraged Condition mul-
her or freeing a Huntsman from the True Fae’s service. tiple times for different characters. Any time the speci-

fied character requests something of yours, resolve this 

INFORMED Condition if your character does as requested without 
rolling to resist.

Example Skills: Empathy, Persuasion, Subterfuge
Your character has a breadth of research information 

based on the topic she investigated. When you make a roll re- Resolution: Your character may either resolve the 
lating to the topic, you may choose to resolve this Condition. Condition by complying with a request as above, or if you 
If you resolve it and the roll fails, consider it to have a single apply the Leveraged Condition to the specified character.
success. If it succeeds, consider it an exceptional success.

The roll that benefits from the Informed Condition 
can be any relevant Skill roll. For example, a character with LOST
Informed (Werewolves) might gain its benefits when using 
researched information to build a silver bear trap with the Your character has no idea where she is, or how to 
Crafts Skill. Combat rolls cannot benefit from this Condition. reach her target. She cannot make any headway toward 

her goal without first navigating and finding out where 
Example Skills: Academics, Investigation, Occult, she is. This requires a successful Wits + Streetwise 

Science action (in the city) or Wits + Survival action (in the 

342 Appendix Four: Conditions



wilderness). In the Hedge, it requires a successful naviga-
tion chase (p. 200). NUMB (PERSISTENT)

Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
Clarity damage rolls. The trauma your character suffered left her numb to 

Resolution: Abandoning the goal, successfully navi- the mundane world. Not on an emotional level; in fact, 
gating. it might be nice if it were an emotional numbness. In-

stead, she feels slight numbness in her limbs. Sometimes 

MADNESS (PERSISTENT) it’s only pins and needles, and sometimes she can’t even 
hold her cup of coffee. It only seems to go away when 
she immerses herself in magic, and she craves the feeling 

Your character saw or did something that jarred it brings. The character suffers a two-die penalty to all 
her loose from reality. This isn’t a mental illness born mundane physical actions.
of brain chemistry — that, at least, might be treatable. Possible Sources: Severe Clarity damage in any of 
This madness is the product of supernatural tampering or your three rightmost boxes.
witnessing something that humanity was never meant to Resolution: Achieve an exceptional success on 
comprehend. The Storyteller has a pool of dice equal to a mundane physical action, spend a week without any 
10 − (character’s Integrity or current Clarity). Once per magical contact, or regain all Willpower points using 
chapter, the Storyteller can apply those dice as a nega- your Needle. 
tive modifier to any Mental or Social roll made for the 
character. Beat: Fail a roll on a mundane physical action.

Resolution: Regain a dot of Integrity, lose another 
dot of Integrity, or achieve an exceptional success on a OATHBREAKER 
breaking point; for changelings, increase maximum Clar-
ity, or achieve exceptional success on a roll to contest a (PERSISTENT)
fae power.

Beat: You fail a roll because of this Condition. The character has violated an oath, and receives this 
Condition in addition to any other effects breaking the 
oath carries. Changelings instinctively distrust the char-

MUTE (PERSISTENT) acter. He suffers a −1 on all Social actions with other 
changelings, and cannot use Glamour to seal their state-
ments. As a known liar, however, he is also immune to 

Your character cannot speak. Any communication having his own statements sealed.
must be done through writing, gestures, or hand signs. 
Illness, injury, or supernatural powers can inflict this Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
Condition on a temporary basis. Clarity damage rolls.

Resolution: The character regains her voice through Beat: Once per session, the player can choose to 
mundane or supernatural means. automatically dramatically fail a Contract roll, or a So-

cial action with a changeling, and take a Beat. Make the 
Beat: Your character suffers a limitation or commu- choice before rolling.

nication difficulty that heightens immediate danger.
Resolution: The character undertakes a sincere at-

tempt to make restitution for his betrayal. This includes 

NOTORIETY finding all other participants involved in the oath and un-
dertaking whatever task they assign. It also includes receiv-
ing forgiveness from the Wyrd itself; this is sure to be the 

Whether or not your character actually did some- focus of a story, and the particulars are up to the Storyteller.
thing heinous in the past, the wrong people think he did 
and now he’s ostracized by the general public. Suffer a 
−2 on any Social rolls against those who know of his OBLIGED (PERSISTENT)
notoriety. If using Social maneuvering (p. 191), the char-
acter must open one extra Door if his target knows of his 
notoriety. Your character swore a bargain — not an oath — with 

a human being. The obligation on her part is probably mi-
Example Skills: Socialize, Subterfuge nor, but she can’t let it lapse! Not only would that disappoint 
Resolution: The story is debunked or the character’s the person to whom she gave her word, but it would expose 

name is cleared. her to the Huntsmen and their Gentry masters.

Conditions 343



While under a bargain, the changeling is more dif-
ficult to find. Huntsmen must win a Clash of Wills to use 
their Hunter’s Senses power (p. 266) when tracking the RAVAGED
changeling, and fae beings no longer add the changeling’s 
Wyrd in dice to do so when she drops her Mask. In ad- A fae creature sundered your character’s dreams, 
dition, once per chapter, when the changeling is at the leaving her with sleep but no rest, or ripped her emotions 
site of her obligation (the human’s home that she must away as Glamour. She becomes a shell of her former self, 
clean, for example, or in the garden she agreed to tend), and you take a two-die penalty on all rolls. Your charac-
she may hide without fear of discovery for the rest of the ter cannot recover Willpower through sleep.
scene. This benefit applies to any pursuer touched by the Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
Wyrd, be it Huntsman, Gentry, hobgoblin, or even an- Clarity damage rolls.
other changeling. Possible Sources: Oneiromancy, reaping Glamour.

Beat: Once per story, gain a Beat when you take a Resolution: Regaining full Willpower.
great risk or suffer harm while fulfilling your obligation. 
You can have help from other characters, but you must be 
directly involved — no subcontracting out. RECKLESS

Resolution: Break the bargain by failing to live up to 
its terms, or the other party breaks her part of the agree- The character is incapable of considering the con-
ment. Either way, you lose any protections the bargain sequences of her actions and is driven to do incautious 
provided. things for the sheer thrill of it. The player takes a −2 

to Perception rolls and other Composure rolls made to 

OBSESSION  notice something (such as to contest sleight of hand or a 
stealth-related supernatural power).

(PERSISTENT) Resolution: The character or one of her allies suffers 
harm or a major setback due to an ill-considered risk or 

Something’s on your character’s mind and she just reckless action she takes.
can’t shake it. She gains the 9-again quality on all rolls 
related to pursuing her obsession. On rolls that are un-
related to her obsession, she loses the 10-again quality. SHAKEN
Obsession can be a temporary Condition per Storyteller 
approval. Something has severely frightened your character. 

Resolution: The character sheds or purges her fixation. Any time your character is taking an action where that 
Beat: Character fails to fulfill an obligation due to fear might hinder her, you may opt to fail the roll and 

pursuing her Obsession. resolve this Condition.
Example Skills: Brawl, Firearms, Intimidation, 

Weaponry
PARANOID Possible Sources: Mild Clarity damage in any of your 

three rightmost boxes; breaking points (human characters).
Your character has been reduced to a state of ram- Resolution: The character gives into her fear and 

pant paranoia. She jumps at shadows, sees threats every- fails a roll as described above.
where, and finds it hard to trust. She suffers a two-die 
penalty to perception rolls, Social actions, and dice pools 
to draw upon the Allies, Contacts, Mentor, Retainer, SLEEPWALKING 
Staff, and Status Merits. (PERSISTENT)

Changelings with this Condition add one die to 
Clarity damage rolls. The lines between waking and sleeping blur to the 

Possible Sources: Some supernatural powers, some point where your character doesn’t know which he’s doing. 
dramatic failures. Sometimes he thinks he did something he didn’t do; he re-

Resolution: A week without any fae threat actually members doing it, but maybe he was dreaming. Other times, 
manifesting; a friend or ally achieving exceptional success he finds out later that he spent hours on a task he has no 
on a Social action to convince you of their trustworthiness. memory of doing. You character loses time, may not actually 

complete objectives he thinks he did, and generally has a 
harder time maintaining relationships and obligations.

344 Appendix Four: Conditions



Possible Sources: Severe Clarity damage in any of 
your three rightmost boxes. STOIC

Resolution: Achieve an exceptional success on an 
oneiromancy roll or during an extended action. Your character has shut down the parts of herself that 

Beat: Fail to complete an obligation because you care. She won’t open up to anyone and pretends she’s fine 
thought you already did. when she isn’t. Gain a two-die bonus to Subterfuge rolls to 

hide her emotions or avoid talking about a traumatic experi-

SOUL SHOCKED ence. She doesn’t suffer the untrained penalty for any Sub-
terfuge roll. Take a two-die penalty to Hedgespinning rolls. 
Until she resolves this Condition, she can’t heal Clarity dam-

Your character died because of fae magic while on a age, and she can’t spend Willpower on actions that would 
sojourn in dreams, or in a reality that no longer exists, reveal her true feelings.
but she still remembers it and suffers a shocked sense of Resolution: Opt to fail a roll to resist Empathy or a su-
self. Upon gaining this Condition, roll her current Will- pernatural effect that would read your character’s emotions 
power points (not dots) as a dice pool. Ignore 10-again or mental state; enact a paradigm shift while Hedgespinning.
on this roll, and do not roll a chance die if she has no 
Willpower left. She keeps one Willpower per success, and 
immediately loses the remainder. While this Condition is SWOONED
in effect, your character does not regain Willpower from 
Needle, Thread, or equivalent traits. She still regains Your character is attracted to someone and is vulnerable 
Willpower from rest, surrender, and other means. where they are concerned. He may have the proverbial “but-

Possible Sources: Being “killed” in dream form by fae terflies in his stomach” or just be constantly aware of the ob-
magic, escaping a Bastion crumbling due to oneiromancy. ject of his affection. A character may have multiple instances 

Resolution: Regain full Willpower. of this Condition, reflecting affection for multiple characters. 
He suffers a −2 to any rolls that would adversely affect the 
specified character, who also gains +2 on any Social rolls 

SPOOKED against him. If the specified character is attempting Social 
maneuvering on the Swooned character, the impression level 

Your character has seen something supernatural — is considered one higher (maximum of perfect; see p. 192).
not overt enough to terrify her, but unmistakably other- Example Skills: Persuasion, Subterfuge
worldly. How your character responds to this is up to you, Resolution: Your character does something for his love 
but it captivates her and dominates her focus. interest that puts him in danger, or he opts to fail a roll to 

Possible Sources: Mild Clarity damage in any of resist a Social action by the specified character.
your three rightmost boxes.

Resolution: Resolve this Condition when your char-
acter’s fear and fascination causes her to do something VOLATILE
that hinders the group or complicates things (she goes off 
alone to investigate a strange noise, stays up all night re- The equipment the character is using to aid his action 
searching, runs away instead of holding her ground, etc.). is ready to blow at any moment, figuratively or literally. One 

wrong word, one badly placed rune, and it’s time to duck and 
cover. A plan may be Volatile because it backfires terribly, or 

STEADFAST because a Storyteller character betrays the group, etc. Any 
failure achieved while benefiting from the equipment is au-

Your character is confident and resolved. When tomatically a dramatic failure. The equipment may continue 
you’ve failed a roll, you may choose to resolve this Condi- to exist after this Condition is resolved, but if so, reduce its 
tion to instead treat the action as if you’d rolled a single equipment bonus by two dice. This can create equipment 
success. If the roll is a chance die, you may choose to re- penalties if the original bonus was fewer than two dice.
solve this Condition and roll a single regular die instead. Possible Sources: Achieving a failure on a Build 

Resolution: Your character’s confidence carries him Equipment roll.
through and the worst is avoided; the Condition is re- Resolution: The character suffers a dramatic failure 
solved as described above. while using the equipment. Plans grant one Beat to each 

player whose character is involved when this Condition 
resolves.

Conditions 345



WANTON WITHDRAWN
Your character wants for the sake of wanting. He’s Your character doesn’t know what to trust anymore, 

distracted with temptations of excess and indulgence. so has decided to withdraw into herself. She finds it hard 
Any Composure or Resolve rolls to resist temptation suf- to motivate herself to action, preferring to remain alone 
fer a –2 die penalty. As well, the character that brought and safe. The character suffers a two-die penalty to all 
forth this Condition achieves exceptional success on rolls that require her to interact with others in any way.
three successes instead of five when making any rolls to Possible Sources: Mild Clarity damage in any of 
tempt your character. your three rightmost boxes.

Possible Sources: Bedlam. Resolution: The character regains Willpower using 
Resolution: Indulge in something that constitutes a her Thread.

breaking point.

346 Appendix Four: Conditions



A Arcadia 10-11, 13-14, 18-19, 24-26, 28- Goblin Contracts, Oath, Mortal World, 
29, 31, 33, 36-37, 42, 51-58, 63-69, Pledge, Token, Sealing, True Fae, and 

Action 176-179, 181-186, 188, 193-195. 71, 73, 75-79, 81, 83-85, 89-91, 95, 98, Wyrd.
See also Action Scenes, Chases, Combat, 100-102, 106, 109, 111, 121, 123, 125, Bastion 13-14, 23, 54, 69, 112, 119-120, 
Common Actions, Dice, Investigation, Sto- 127, 133, 137-139, 145, 147-148, 150, 144, 149, 203, 206-207, 216-217, 219-
rytelling, Teamwork, Tilt, and Willpower. 198-201, 203, 215, 220-222, 235, 237- 222, 246, 263-265, 334, 338, 342, 
	 Actions by Opposition 177 241, 243-245, 249, 252-253, 261-270, 345. See also Dreaming Roads.

272-273, 277-279, 282, 286-287, 298-
	 Actions by Time 177 299, 302, 304-307, 310-311, 313, 315- Beat 94. See also Aspiration, Character 
	 Action Scenes 16, 101, 116, 147, 157, 316, 333. See also Changeling, Durance, Advancement, Condition, Contract, Expe-
177, 182-184, 188-189, 195-197, 214, Faerie, Hedge, Huntsmen, Keeper, Places, rience, Storytelling, and Wyrd.
334. See also Tilt and Violence, Defense. True Fae, and Wyrd. 	 Beats and Storyteller Characters 95
	 Contested Action 15-17, 178, 184 Arcadian Contracts 94, 127-150, 253, 	 Experiences 16
	 Extended Action 15-17, 111, 176-178, 308-309, 340-341. See also Contract 	 Group Beat 95
197-198, 336, 345 and True Fae.

Bedlam 15-16, 94-95, 103, 105, 110, 
	 Instant Action 15-17, 177-178, 180, 	 Pupil’s Devotion 128-129, 319, 341 119, 201, 205, 219-220, 307, 335, 339, 
182, 184-185, 190, 195, 222, 228, 236, 	 Regalia 15, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 90, 342, 346. See also Fae Magic and Glam-
248-249, 266, 330 92-95, 127-150, 163, 178, 210, 242, our.
	 Reflexive Action 15, 17, 54, 177-178, 268-271, 319, 341. See also Crown Re- 	 Incite Bedlam 103, 110
181, 184, 187, 209, 256, 266, 331 galia, Jewels Regalia, Mirror Regalia, 

Shield Regalia, Steed Regalia, and Sword 	 Suggested Bedlam Modifiers 110
	 Resisted Action 178, 193, 254 Regalia Bewitched. See Seeming, Darkling.
	 Rote Action 124, 176 Ashen Court, The 43, 45. See also Court, Breaking Point 104-105, 192. See also 
	 Successive Attempts 176 Autumn. Beat, Clarity, Experience, and Integrity.
	 Time Interval 178 Aspiration 15, 89-90, 93-95, 135-137, 	 Powers as Breaking Points 105

161, 192, 199, 252, 264-266, 269, 312, 
Acts 298-302. See also Storytelling. 337. See also Beat, Character Advance- 	 Sample Breaking Points 106
	 Act Zero: The Prologue 302 ment, and Experience. 	 Suggested Breaking Point Modifiers 
	 Act One: The Life I Lost 299 Attributes 15-17, 90-94, 100-101, 129, 104-105

	 Act Two: My Capture 299 169-170, 174-175, 216-217, 234, 246- Bruiser. See Seeming, Ogre.
247, 252-253, 266, 269, 308. See also 

	 Act Three: In Durance Vile 299-300. Mental Attribute, Physical Attributes, 
See also Durance. Skills, Social Attributes, and Traits. C
	 Act Four: My Escape 300-301. See also 	 Attribute Task 169-170 Changeling 11, 13-15, 22-24, 26, 29-31, 
Escape. 33, 35-38, 41, 44-49, 51-59, 63-64, 

Autumn Contracts 156-159. See also 
	 Act Five: Home, But Not 301 66-69, 71, 73, 76, 78-85, 89, 91-92, 95, 

Court, Autumn and Court Contracts. 97-105, 107, 109-112, 117, 126-128, 
	 Act Six: My New Life 301 	 Autumn’s Fury 156 164, 181, 198-205, 207-217, 221-229, 
	 Act Seven: A Motley Crew 301-302 	 Famine’s Bulwark 157 233-249, 263-265, 267, 278-293, 298-
Advancement. See Character Advancement. 302, 306-319, 333-336, 339-344. See 

	 Last Harvest 156 also Character Creation, Durance, Fae 
Advantages 15, 92-93, 174, 247, 253, 	 Mien of the Baba Yaga 158 Magic, Fetch, Frailty, Freehold, Hedge, 
265, 270, 319. See also Character Cre- Keeper, Kenning, Kith, Mortal World, 
ation, Injury and Health, Violence, and 	 Riding the Falling Leaves 158 Motley, Seeming, and True Fae. 
Willpower. 	 Sorcerer’s Rebuke 158 Changeling Merits 111-120. See also 
	 Determine Advantages 92 	 Tale of the Baba Yaga 157 Changeling and Merits. 
	 Maximum Clarity 92-93. See also Clar- 	 Tasting the Harvest 158-159 	 Acute Senses 111, 257
ity. 	 Twilight’s Harbinger 157 	 Arcadian Metabolism 111, 257
	 Size 53, 92-93, 116, 123, 125, 129- 	 Witches’ Intuition 157
130, 133, 175, 184, 186, 191, 196, 248, 	 Brownie’s Boon 111
253, 323-324
	 Speed 92-93, 113-114, 123, 134, B

	 Cloak of Leaves 111
	 Cold Hearted 111-112

140-141, 144-147, 158, 175, 177, 182, Bargain (Court) 13, 35-39, 41, 45-47, 49- 	 Court Goodwill 112, 117, 119, 150-
184, 186, 195-196, 200, 204, 225, 251, 50, 80, 150, 164, 214, 240, 264, 306- 151, 203, 235, 319. See also Fetch. 
253, 255-256, 328-329, 331, 336 307, 315. See also Changeling, Contract, 	 Defensive Dreamscaping 112, 242
Anchor 95-99, 174, 245-247, 253, 265, Glamour, Huntsman, True Fae, and Wyrd.
270, 275. See also Character Creation, 	 Diviner 112

Bargain (Pledge) 11, 13, 15, 44-45, 50, 
Escape, Mortal World, Needle, Thread, 73, 80, 84, 92, 94, 126-127, 162, 203, 	 Dream Warrior 112
Touchstone, and Willpower. 209, 211-212, 214-215, 228, 235, 261, 	 Dreamweaver 113, 242
Antler Crown, The 35-37. See also Court, 266-267, 269, 271, 286-287, 289, 291-
Spring. 292, 298, 307, 309, 312, 319, 321, 	 Dull Beacon 113

343-344. See also Changeling, Glamour, 	 Elemental Warrior 113

Index 347



	 Enchanting Performance 113, 259 Clarity 11, 13-16, 76, 80, 92-93, 95, 97- 	 Connected (Persistent) 335
	 Fae Mount 113-114, 206 99, 104-107, 128, 199-201, 203, 214, 	 Cowed 129-130, 158, 335

222, 235, 237-240, 243-244, 247, 250, 
	 Faerie Favor 114 270, 272, 293, 318. See also Breaking 	 Delusional (Persistent) 16, 99, 107, 
	 Fair Harvest 114-115 Point, Changeling, Fae Magic, Hedge, In- 335-336

	 Firebrand 115 tegrity, Kenning, and Touchstone. 	 Demoralized 159, 335

	 Gentrified Bearing 115 	 Clarity Attacks 15, 104-105, 115, 128, 	 Deprived 104, 253, 269, 333, 336, 
137-138, 142-143, 150, 200, 208, 229, 339-341

	 Glamour Fasting 115, 242, 319 250, 338, 340, 342. See also Violence. 	 Disabled (Persistent) 336
	 Goblin Bounty 115 	 Clarity Conditions 105, 107, 112, 117, 	 Disoriented 129, 133, 146, 161, 226, 
	 Grounded 115 137, 142-143, 152, 213, 334-335. See 336
	 Hedge Brawler 115 also Condition.

	 Dissociation 107, 150, 336
	 Hedge Duelist 115 	 Clarity Damage 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 

58, 97-99, 105, 107, 112, 137, 142-143, 	 Distracted 107, 336
	 Hedge Sense 115 150, 152, 212, 235, 266, 279, 333-336, 	 Dream Assailant 106, 220, 336-337
	 Hob Kin 115-116 339-346. See also Sources of Harm. 	 Dream Infiltrator 106, 220, 337-338
	 Hollow 116. See also Hedge, Hollow. 	 Clarity Track 98, 104-105, 217 	 Dream Intruder 106, 220, 337-338
	 Lethal Mien 116. See also Mien. Cold Iron 40, 102, 239, 243, 248, 253, 

263-265. See also Fae Magic, Frailty, 	 Embarrassing Secret 197, 226, 338
	 Mantle 116-118. See also Mantle. Sources of Harm, and True Fae. 	 Fatigued 152, 338-339
	 Manymask 118 Combat. See Violence. 	 Fragile 197, 283, 339-340
	 Market Sense 119 Common Actions 178-181. See also Ac- 	 Frightened 55, 110, 130, 148, 158-
	 Noblesse Oblige 119 tions. 159, 339
	 Pandemoniacal 119 	 Argument 179 	 Fugue (Persistent) 107, 339
	 Parallel Lives 119 	 Carousing 174, 179 	 Glamour Addicted (Persistent) 104, 
	 Rigid Mask 119 	 Fast-Talk 173-174, 179 339

	 Stable Trod 119, 202 	 Hacking 90, 171, 179 	 Goblin Queen (Persistent) 14, 75, 203, 
258, 340-342 

	 Token 119-120 	 Interrogation 173, 179 	 Guilty 16, 129, 137, 207, 340
	 Touchstone 120. See also Touchstone. 	 Intimidation 59, 115, 125, 128-129, 
	 Warded Dreams 120 148-149, 153, 155, 158, 173, 179-180, 	 Hedge Addiction (Persistent) 319, 340

242, 257-258, 261-262, 326, 334, 340, 	 Hedge Denizen (Persistent) 162, 226, 
	 Workshop 120, 135 344 257, 340-342
Character Advancement 94-95. See also 	 Investigating a Scene 180 	 Hunted (Persistent) 163, 225, 228, 342
Aspiration, Beat, Character Creation, 
Condition, Contract, Experience, and 	 Jumping 172, 180 	 Improvised Conditions 182
Wyrd. 	 Research 170, 181 	 Informed 137-138, 144, 181, 203, 
Character Creation 89-93. See also Ad- 	 Shadowing a Mark 181 226, 342
vantages, Anchor, Aspiration, Attributes, 	 Sneaking 181 	 Inspired 113, 123, 130, 132, 143, 159, 
Changeling, Character Advancement, 176, 342
Contract, Court, Creating a Fae-Touched, Condition 16, 94-95, 107, 176, 178, 181- 	 Lethargic 110, 216, 220, 222, 342
Creating Hedge Ghosts, Creating Hob- 183, 188-189, 194-197, 201, 203-204, 
goblins, Integrity, Kith, Merits, Mien, Nee- 206-207, 219-220, 330, 333-346. See 	 Leveraged 29, 126, 139, 197, 226, 
dle, Rolling Dice, Seeming, Skills, Thread, also Beat, Character Advancement, and 288, 338, 342
Touchstone, Traits, Willpower and Wyrd. Character Creation. 	 Lingering Conditions 182
	 Character Sheet 12 	 Addicted (Persistent) 104, 333, 339 	 Lost 342-343
	 Concept 89-90 	 Amnesia (Persistent) 333, 338 	 Madness (Persistent) 11, 203, 229, 319, 
	 Experienced Lost 93 	 Arcadian Dreams (Persistent) 319, 333 338, 343

	 Quick Reference 94-95 	 Awestruck (Persistent) 333-334, 338 	 Mute (Persistent) 155, 225, 343

	 Resistance Attribute 23 	 Berserk 150, 156, 207, 228, 334 	 Notoriety 29, 114, 149, 151, 213, 215, 

Chases 195-196, 200, 263. See also Ac- 	 Bestial 130, 334 227, 338, 343

tion and Storytelling. 	 Blind (Persistent) 183, 213, 334 	 Numb (Persistent) 343

	 Other Kinds of Chases 196 	 Bonded 334 	 Oathbreaker (Persistent) 213, 271, 
292, 320-321, 343

	 Pursuit and Evasion 195-196 	 Broken (Persistent) 107, 161, 334 	 Obliged (Persistent) 215, 343-344
Chronicles of Darkness 11, 15, 92, 	 Comatose 54, 107, 216, 220, 334-
101, 111, 169-170, 174, 178, 236, 246, 335 	 Obsession (Persistent) 129, 153, 158, 
249, 253, 265, 298. See also Media and 270, 338, 344
Storytelling. 	 Competitive 110, 335, 338 	 Paranoid 129, 137, 139, 211, 225, 

	 Confused 107, 164, 335 266, 338, 344

348 Changeling: the Lost Second Edition



	 Ravaged 103, 337, 344 	 Crown, The 307 	 Anchors 253. See also Anchor.
	 Reckless 153, 344 	 Courtiers 35-42, 44-46, 48-50, 112, 	 Attributes and Skills 253. See also At-
	 Shaken 23, 59, 107, 129, 133, 157, 150-151, 161, 291 tribute and Skills.
159, 224, 226, 254-255, 266, 344 	 Courtless 240, 242. See also Loyal. 	 Dread Powers and Contracts 253
	 Sleepwalking (Persistent) 107, 344- 	 Give and Take 41 	 Hobgoblin Wyrd 252. See also Wyrd.
345 	 How Many Courts in a Freehold? 306 	 Merits 253. See also Merits. 
	 Soul Shocked 216, 220, 222, 345 	 Monarch 37, 40-41, 44, 48, 80, 164, Crimson Court, The 39-41. See also Court, 
	 Spooked 23, 106-108, 129, 140, 144, 237, 264, 271, 298, 301. See also Crown Summer. 
146, 148, 158, 227, 345 of Seasons. Crown of Seasons, The 164-166. See also 
	 Steadfast 132, 159, 165, 345 	 Rulership and Exile 307 Bargain (Court), Changeling, Court, Fae 
	 Stoic 129, 143, 162, 345 	 Seasons Change 112. See also Merit. Magic, Glamour, Mantle, Mien, and Wyrd. 

	 Swooned 57, 126, 130, 148, 159, 182, 	 Spring 15, 35-38, 93, 105, 115. See 	 Blessing of the Green 165. See also 
226, 338, 345 also Antler Crown, Court of Desire, Emer- Court, Spring.

	 Volatile 130, 146, 149, 197, 283, 345 ald Court, and Spring Contracts. 	 Challenge of the Black Spear 165. See 

	 Wanton 110, 130, 153, 346 	 Summer 15, 37-43, 45, 83, 90, 94. also Court, Summer.
See also Court of Wrath, Crimson Court, 	 Harvest of Whispers 165. See also 

	 Withdrawn 107, 129, 346 Iron Spear, and Summer Contracts. Court, Autumn.
Content Warning 12-13. See also Safe 	 Turning of the Seasons, The 40 	 Feast of Ashes 165. See also Court, 
Hearth, Safe Table and Storytelling. 

	 Winter 15, 37, 45, 47-50, 59, 94. See Winter.
Contract 13-15, 41, 44-46, 75, 78, 80, also Court of Sorry, Onyx Court, Silent Ar- Crown Regalia 29, 92-94, 127-132, 292. 
83-84, 90, 92-95, 102-105, 107-111, row, and Winter Contracts. See also Arcadian Contracts and Seem-
117-119, 126-165, 178, 198, 204, 206, 
211-214, 216-217, 220, 223-224, 235- Court Contracts 150-162. See also Au- ing, Fairest. 

236, 238, 240, 252-253, 256-262, 265- tumn Contracts, Contract, Court, Fae 	 Discreet Summons 130
266, 268, 270-272, 279, 291-292, 304, Magic, Spring Contracts, Summer Con- 	 Hostile Takeover 128
307-309, 312-313, 317, 319, 321, 329, tracts, and Winter Contracts.

	 Mask of Superiority 128
336, 340-343. See also Arcadia, Arcadi- Court of Desire, The 35, 37. See also 
an Contracts, Changeling, Clarity, Courts, Court, Spring. 	 Mastermind’s Gambit 129
Court Contracts, Escape, Experience, Fae Court of Fear, The 44-45. See also Court, 	 Paralyzing Presence 129, 261
Magic, Glamour, Goblin Contracts, and Autumn. 	 Pipes of the Beastcaller 131
Keeper. 

Court of Sorrow, The 47-50. See also 	 Royal Court, The 131-132, 150
	 Clash of Wills 56-57, 107-109, 116, Court, Winter. 
119, 126, 128, 132, 134, 140, 142, 144, 	 Spinning Wheel 132
146-147, 150, 156, 161, 164, 203, 217, Court of Wrath, The 39. See also Court, 	 Summon the Loyal Servant 129
236, 253, 265-266, 279, 344 Summer. 

	 Tumult 129-130, 262
	 Contract Creation 308 Creating a Fae-Touched 318. See also 

Character Creation, Fae-Touched, Fae-
	 Contracts and Clarity 128 Touched Merits, and Storytelling. D
	 Loophole 127, 308 	 Add Fae-Touched Traits 318 Damage. See Sources of Harm and Vio-
	 Modifier 126 	 Drawbacks 319 lence.
Council of Elves, The (Reykjavík, Iceland) Creating Hedge Ghosts 246-249. See Dice 12, 16, 100-101, 104-106, 117-119, 
281-285. See also Faces, Kingdoms of the also Character Creation, Hedge Ghost, 126, 170, 175-178, 181-182, 190, 192, 
Earth, Places, and Seasonal Loeg. and Storytelling. 201, 218-219, 279-280, 283-284, 287-
	 Historiarum Obscura 282-283 288, 291-292, 297, 302, 307-309. See 

	 Advantages 247. See also Advantages. also Action, Character Creation, Objects, 
Courser. See Seeming, Beast. 	 Attributes and Skills 246. See also At- Violence, and Willpower.
Court 13, 15, 35-41, 43-45, 47-50, 56, tributes and Skills. 	 8-Again 15, 114, 122, 126, 140, 156, 
58-59, 66, 80, 83, 90-95, 105, 112, 115, 	 Common Powers 249 176, 204, 221, 266
150, 242, 260, 278-279, 281, 287-288, 
291-292, 301, 306-309, 315, 319, 340- 	 Frailties 248. See also Sources of Harm. 	 9-Again 15, 124, 126, 138, 156, 176, 
341. See also Character Creation, Con- 	 Glamour 246. See also Glamour. 204, 266, 323-324, 344
tract, Court Contracts, Crown of Seasons, 	 Influence 248-249 	 10-Again 15, 114-115, 175-176, 195, 
Fae Magic, Freehold, Goblin Contracts, 204, 266, 344-345
Kingdoms of the Earth, Kith, Mien, Mortal 	 Injuries 248. See also Sources of Harm. 
World, Seeming, and Storytelling. 	 Chance Die, The 133, 162, 176, 184, 

	 Manifestation 249 198, 228, 327-328, 331-332, 334, 345
	 Autumn 13, 37, 43-46, 48, 56, 94. See Creating Hobgoblins 252-253. See also 
also Ashen Court, Court of Fear, Leaden 	 Chance Roll 16-17

Character Creation, Hobgoblins, and Sto-
Mirror, and Autumn Contracts. rytelling. 	 Circumstance and Equipment 175
	 Bargain, The 307. See also Bargain 	 Advantages and Frailties 253. See also 	 Dice Pool 15-17, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 
(Court). Advantages and Sources of Harm. 100, 104-105, 116, 119, 125-126, 133-

Index 349



134, 141-142, 150, 153, 170, 175-178, 
181-182, 184-186, 190, 193, 198, 200, E 	 Pie Man, The 292-293. See also Tum-

bledown Market.
221, 224, 228, 253-254, 256, 266, Echoes 14, 78, 235-237. See also Fetch. 	 Runa Tryggvisdottir 285. See also 
308, 322-323, 328-330, 332, 336, 338, 	 Attuned to the Wyrd 235-236. See also Council of Elves, The.
344-345 Wyrd. 	 Shipwright, The 289. See also Hard-a-
	 Dramatic Failure 16, 94, 105, 120-121, 	 Call the Huntsmen 236. See also Hunts- Lee.
126, 132-133, 135, 142, 175-176, 190, man.
194, 197, 203-205, 218, 222, 225, 255, 	 Summer Wong 280. See also Eighty-
258, 284, 329, 335-336, 338, 344-345 	 Death of Glamour 236. See also Glam- Nine Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen Pavil-

our. ion.
	 Exceptional Success 16, 51-59, 105, 
108, 113, 120-121, 133, 137, 144, 150, 	 Echoes and the Chronicles of Dark- 	 Tumbledown Players, The 293. See also 
156, 159, 163, 175-176, 178, 185, 201, ness 236. See also Chronicles of Dark- Tumbledown Market.
205-206, 219, 226-228, 255-256, 266, ness. 	 Wren Lamontaigne 292-293. See also 
270, 305, 320, 328, 333-336, 339, 	 Enter the Hedge 236. See also Hedge. Tumbledown Market.
342-346 	 Mimic Contract 236. See also Contract. 	 Xiaoming 280-281. See also Eighty-
	 Multiple Rolls 177-178, 192 	 Normalcy 236 Nine Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen Pavil-
	 Permutations 176 ion.

	 Shadow Boxing 236
	 Required Successes 33, 178, 195, 197 Fae, The 14, 22, 63, 65-66, 81, 207, 

	 Shadow Step 236 268. See also Arcadia, Changeling, Fa-
	 Roll Limit 178 	 Summon Shard 237 erie, Fae-Touched, Hedge, and True Fae.
	 Roll Results 105, 107, 110, 128-140, Eighty-Nine Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen Faerie 10, 13-15, 21-22, 24-26, 28-29, 
142-144, 146-153, 155-163, 176-178, Pavilion (Hong Kong) 277-281. See also 31-32, 34-35, 54-56, 58, 68, 84, 89, 
183, 190, 193, 195-197, 199, 211, 221, Dragon Court, Faces, Kingdoms of the 92-93, 100-101, 107-110, 114, 118-119, 
246 Earth, and Places. 126-127, 134, 200, 208, 215, 217, 220, 
	 When to Roll Dice 176 	 Historiarum Obscura 277 222, 233-234, 243, 259, 263, 266-
Domovoi. See Seeming, Wizened. 268, 270, 300-301, 303-304, 310-314, 

Emerald Court, The 35-38. See also 316-319, 340. See also Arcadia. 
Dragon Court, The 278-280. See also Court, Spring. 
Court and Eighty-Nine Dreams of Home, Fae Magic 68, 100, 102, 107, 123, 125, 

Equipment. See Objects, Equipment.
the Yuanfen Pavilion. 152, 216, 222, 236, 243, 266, 283, 313, 

Escape, The 76-85, 273, 300-302, 312. 345. See also Arcadia, Bedlam, Change-
	 Society of Morning 279 See also Arcadia, Changeling, Durance, ling, Clarity, Durance, Glamour, Mask, 
	 Society of Day 279 Hedge, Mortal World, and Places. Mien, True Fae, and Wyrd. 
	 Society of Night 279-281 Experience 15-16, 89, 93-95, 101, 104, 	 Crown of Seasons, The. See Crown of 
Dreaming Roads 14, 65, 69, 73, 112, 111, 127-128, 138, 150, 162, 206, 213, Seasons, The. 
199, 207, 217, 220-221, 272. See also 235, 319, 341. See also Beat, Contract, 	 Frailties 102. See also Cold Iron, Frailty, 
Bastion, Hedge, and Oneiromancy. Character Advancement, and Wyrd. and Wyrd. 
	 Bastion’s End, A 222 	 Costs 94 	 Portaling 15, 102, 109, 266, 288
	 Navigating the Dreaming Roads 220-
221 F Fae Mien. See Mien.

Faerie Magic. See Fae Magic.
	 Stranger Paths 221 Faces 280, 284, 288, 292. See also Sto- Fae-Touched, The 14, 84, 281-282, 
Dreamweaving 14-15, 113, 216-221, rytelling. 299-301, 310-321, 333, 340. See also 
319-320. See also Oneiromancy. 	 Armslength 284-285. See also Council Changeling, Character Creation, Court, 
	 Eidolons and Props 217 of Elves, The. Creating a Fae-Touched, Fae Magic, Loy-

	 Playing a Role 218 	 Aunt Peg 288-289. See also Hard-a- al, Storytelling, True Fae, and Wyrd.
Lee. 	 Becoming Fae-Touched 310-311

	 Paradigm Shifts 219-220
	 Carey Ives 241-241. See also Loyal. 	 Call of the Wyrd 312-313

	 Shift Conditions 219. See also Condi-
tion. 	 Charlotte Wake 293. See also Tumble- 	 Dark Dreams 318

down Market.
	 Subtle Shifts 218-219 	 Escaping the Hedge 311-312. See also 

	 Eddie and Alexia Siu 281. See also Hedge.
Durability 16, 121, 134-135, 138, 140- Eighty-Nine Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen 
142, 149, 186-187, 191, 204, 225, 250, 	 Fae-Touched in Changeling Society 

Pavilion.
330. See also Objects and Violence. 313-315

	 Krzysztof Kowalczyk 285. See also 
Durance 12-14, 43, 45, 51-54, 58, 63, 	 Hunted, The 316-317. See also Hunts-

Council of Elves, The.
66-68, 76-79, 80-85, 89, 91, 95, 98, man. 
100-101, 104, 106, 108, 120, 198, 203, 	 Lacey O’Donnell 288-289. See also 	 Key Smiths 316
207, 238-239, 244, 252, 266, 284, 288- Hard-a-Lee.

	 Oath Keepers 315. See also Oath.
289, 294, 298-302, 313, 318. See also 	 Masked Jorunn 285. See also Council 
Arcadia, Changeling, Fae Magic, Fetch, of Elves, The. 	 Outsiders 315-316
Hedge, Keeper, and Touchstone. 	 Old Bartholomew 288. See also Hard- 	 Playing a Fae-Touched 318
Duration. See Time, Duration. a-Lee. 	 Promise Collector, The 317-318

350 Changeling: the Lost Second Edition



	 Using Loyal Fae-Touched 317. See also Mantle, Mortal World, and Motley. 	 Wayward Guide 164
Loyal.
	 Within the Freehold 315. See also Free- G Goblin Fruit 14, 37, 45-46, 101, 103, 

106, 115-116, 120, 135, 144-145, 152, 
hold. 198, 206-208, 246, 249, 252, 255, 

Gargoyle. See Seeming, Ogre.
Fae-Touched Merits 318-321. See also 261, 265, 272, 290, 293. See also 
Creating a Fae-Touched and Merit. Gates of Ivory and Horn, The 215-217. Hedge, Oddments, and Wyrd.

See also Oneiromancy.
	 Dream Shaper 320 	 Amaranthine 208

	 Gate of Horn, The 54, 199, 204, 215, 
	 Expressive 320 	 Faerie Peach 208

217, 222, 246
	 Find the Oathbreaker 320-221. See 	 Liar’s Apple 208

	 Gate of Ivory, The 112, 123, 144, 215-
also Oath. 217, 246, 319, 334 	 Odinroot 208
	 Hedge Delver 320. See also Hedge. Gentry. See True Fae. 	 Ogre Peppers 208
	 Oathkeeper 320. See also Oath. Ghost. See Hedge Ghost. 	 Vines of Bacchus 208
	 Promise of Debt 320 Glamour 14, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 36, Good Cousins. See True Fae.
	 Promise of Love 320 39, 52-59, 68, 79-80, 83-84, 90, 92, 98, Grim. See Seeming, Beast.
	 Promise of Loyalty 320 100-106, 108-111, 113-119, 126-165, 

198, 203, 205-213, 217-219, 222, 224-
	 Promise of Protection 320 226, 228-229, 233, 236-238, 240-244, H
	 Promise to Provide 320-321 246-256, 258, 260, 263, 265-266, 269- Hard-a-Lee (Ipswich, Massachusetts) 
	 Promise to Serve 321 270, 279-280, 283-284, 287-288, 290- 286-289. See also Faces, Kingdoms of the 

292, 305-309, 312-313, 315-316, 318- Earth, Places, and Tide Courts.
	 Punish the Oathbreaker 321. See also 321, 336, 338-339, 342-344. See also 
Oath. 	 Historiarum Obscura 286-287

Arcadia, Bedlam, Changeling, Contract, 
	 Sense Vows 320-321 Fae Magic, Hedge, True Fae, and Wyrd. Hatter. See Seeming, Wizened.

Fair Folk. See True Fae. 	 Glamour Deprivation 104 Hedge, The 10-15, 19, 23-27, 29, 31, 
38, 40, 42, 45, 48, 51, 53-55, 58-59, 

Fetch 11, 13-14, 19, 24, 33, 40, 45, 48, 	 Harvesting Glamour 103, 105, 339 63, 68-69, 71-73, 75-79, 82-85, 87, 96, 
67, 72-73, 77-78, 89, 106, 119, 135, 	 Reaping 103-104, 106 100, 102-104, 108-109, 111, 113-119, 
163, 203, 208, 231, 233-240, 273, 
281, 287, 291, 294, 299, 301, 305, 310, 	 Spend Glamour 103 121, 129, 135-136, 141-147, 159, 161-

163, 165, 171, 173, 182, 198-209, 213, 
313, 320, 335, 342. See also Change- Goblin 12, 14, 25, 32, 50, 68, 73, 75, 215-229, 233-240, 243-267, 269-271, 
ling, Character Creation, Durance, 79, 92, 94-95, 101, 115-116, 118-120, 273, 277, 279, 281-282, 284-295, 299, 
Echoes, Escape, Fetch Resolution, Hedge, 133, 144, 162-163, 174, 198, 200-203, 301-302, 306, 309-320, 333, 340-343. 
Integrity, Keeper, Storytelling, Storytelling 207-208, 220, 223, 226, 229, 240, 243, See also Arcadia, Changeling, Contract, 
the Fetch, and True Fae. 249, 253-256, 258-259, 261, 263, 289- Clarity, Dreaming Roads, Durance, Es-
	 Building the Fetch 233 293, 298, 304-305, 309, 340-342. See cape, Fetch, Freehold, Goblin Fruit, Hedg-

also Changeling, Goblin Contracts, Gob-
	 Character Creation in Brief 235 espinning, Hedge Traveling, Huntsman, 

lin Fruit, and Hobgoblin. Hobgoblin, Keeper, Mask, Mien, Odd-
	 Fetch Traits 234 Goblin Contracts 14, 75, 92, 94-95, 162- ments, Places, Pledge, and True Fae. 
	 Five Questions 233-234 164, 253, 256, 258, 292, 304, 309, 	 Clarity and Mien 199

340-342. See also Bargain (Pledge), 
	 Magic of the Fetch 235-236 Changelings, Contract, Experience, Fae 	 Ephemeral Entities in the Hedge 249. 
Fetch Resolution 238-239. See also Fetch Magic, and Goblin. See also Hedge Ghost.
and Storytelling the Fetch. 	 Cost and Use 309 	 Following Through 199
	 Forgive the Fetch 238-239 	 Blessing of Forgetfulness 162 	 Hollows 200. See also Hedge Ghost 
	 Kill the Fetch 238 Examples, Hollow-Haunts.

	 Debtor 309
	 Reclaim the Fetch 239 	 Icons 203-204. See also Changeling 

	 Effect 309 and Durance.
Forsworn 14, 213. See also Condition, 	 Glib Tongue 162-153
Oathbreaker. 	 Keys 199

	 Goblin Debt 162
Frailty 14, 102, 110, 112, 129, 248, 254. 	 Other Beings Called to the Hedge 199 
See also Changeling, Fae Magic, True 	 Goblin’s Eye 163 	 Stepping Through 198
Fae, Willpower, and Wyrd. 	 Goblin’s Luck 163 	 What is Real? 76
	 Bane 102. See also Cold Iron. 	 Huntsman’s Clarion 163. See also 	 You Can’t Go Home Again 76-77
	 Taboo 102 Huntsman.

Hedge Ghost 245-251. See also Creating 
Freehold 11, 14-15, 22, 24, 29, 32-33, 	 Lost Visage 163-164 Hedge Ghosts, Hedge, Hedge Ghost Ex-
37, 40-42, 44-46, 48-49, 57-59, 69, 79- 	 Mantle Mask 164. See also Mask. amples, and Hedge Ghost Numina.
81, 89, 93, 110, 117, 119, 171, 174, 182, 
201, 208, 212-213, 223-226, 228, 241- 	 Purchase 309 	 Hedge Ghost Wyrd 246. See also 
245, 251-252, 258, 263, 279-281, 286- 	 Sight of Truth and Lies 164 Wyrd.
287, 290-291, 295, 298, 301-302, 306, 	 Uncanny 164 Hedge Ghost Examples 251. See also 
314-318. See also Changeling, Court, Hedge Ghost.

Index 351



	 Hollow-haunts 251. See also Hedge, 	 Fairy Swarm 254 	 Fixer 122-123, 260, 292
Hollow. 	 Home Ground 254 	 Fleet of Foot 123, 146, 242
	 Lingering Dead, The 251 	 Hypnotic Gaze 254 	 Giant 123, 137, 148
	 Phantom Hitchhiker of the Trods, The 	 Immortal 254 	 Inspiring 123, 174, 260
251

	 Influence 254 	 Interdisciplinary Specialty 123, 259
	 Ragdoll Ghost, The 251

	 Jump Scare 254-255 	 Iron Stamina 123, 234, 257, 261
Hedge Ghost Numina 249-251. See also 
Hedge Ghost. 	 Know Soul 255 	 Language 89, 123, 171

	 Aggressive Meme 249 	 Lethe’s Embrace 255 	 Library 89, 123, 170, 196, 253, 259

	 Blast 250 	 Maze 255 	 Lucid Dreamer 123, 320

	 Clarity Drain 250 	 Miracle 255 	 Mentor 112, 120, 123, 125, 344

	 Dematerialize 250 	 Mist Form 255 	 Parkour 124, 172

	 Dement 250 	 Much Depends on Dinner 255 	 Professional Training 124

	 Drain 250 	 Natural Weapons 255-256 	 Pusher 124, 260

	 Emotional Aura 250 	 Path Not Taken, The 256 	 Resources 111, 123-124, 186, 191, 

	 Entrap 250 	 Pied Piper 256 197, 253, 291, 322-324

	 Failed Token 250 	 Prodigious Leap 256 	 Retainer 120, 125, 134, 340, 344
	 Safe Place 89, 116, 125, 144

	 Hallucination 250 	 Reality Stutter 256

	 Implant Mission 250 	 Regenerate 256 	 Small-Framed 125

	 Keeper’s Calling 251 	 Snare 256 	 Staff 125, 259, 344

	 Rapture 251 	 Unbreakable 256 	 Status 120-122, 125, 128, 171, 278, 
283, 340, 344

	 Sign 251 Hobgoblin Examples 257-262. See also 
Hobgoblin. 	 Striking Looks 125-126

	 Speed 251
	 Briarwolves 213, 251, 257 	 Sympathetic 126, 260

	 Stalwart 251
	 Deep Cave Monster 257-258 	 Trained Observer 89, 126

	 Stolen Masks 251
	 Liza Cantwell, Age 9, Goblin Queen 	 True Friend 126

Hedgespinning 14, 103, 113, 115, 204- 258-259. See also Condition, Goblin Huntsman 11, 14-15, 23-24, 29, 31, 35, 
207, 218-220, 270, 320, 345. See also Queen. 37, 40, 43, 57, 64, 66, 69, 71, 104, 107-
Hedge.

	 Madam Thimblestitch 258-260 108, 114, 116, 119-120, 150, 153, 161, 
	 Paradigm Shifts 206-207 163-164, 176, 178, 195-196, 198, 200-

	 Mosspocket 260
	 Subtle Shifts 204-205 201, 203-204, 209-212, 214, 219-221, 

	 Trod Trolls 260-261 225, 227, 229, 236-237, 239, 243-245, 
Hedge Traveling 200-203. See also 
Hedge. 	 Wandering Nightmare 261-262 262-267, 270, 273, 279, 282, 286, 288-

289, 292, 294, 305, 307, 309, 316-317, 
	 Terms of the Chase 200-201 Human Merits 120-122. See also Change- 319, 342-344. See also Arcadia, Hedge, 

ling and Merits. 
	 Thorns, The 15, 36, 57, 100, 104, 109, Huntsman Dread Powers, and True Fae.
115-116, 141-142, 198, 200-206, 208, 	 Allies 111-112, 120, 126, 128, 203, 	 Calling the Hunt 264-265
221-223, 228-229, 234, 245, 248-249, 253, 260, 283, 344

	 Dread Powers and Oaths 265
251-252, 257-259, 261, 265, 267, 293, 	 Alternate Identity 120-122, 139
301-302 	 Herald, The 263

	 Anonymity 116, 121-122, 242
	 Trods 15, 23, 69, 72-73, 75-76, 116, 	 Huntsman for all Seasons, A 264

	 Common Sense 121
119, 144, 198, 200-206, 208, 220, 	 Never Far from the Queen 263 
251, 257, 260-261, 285-286, 289-290 	 Contacts 120-122, 124, 126, 197, 

344 	 Panoply, The 263
	 Trod Rating 202

	 Danger Sense 121, 283 	 Wild Hunt, The 12-13, 15, 163, 225, 
Hobgoblin 73, 75, 252-261, 283. See 228, 240, 263-265, 268, 303, 315
also Arcadia, Creating Hobgoblins, Ex- 	 Demolisher 121, 258

Huntsman Dread Powers 265-266. See 
ample Hobgoblins, Hedge, and Hobgob- 	 Direction Sense 121, 283 also Huntsman.
lin Dread Powers. 	 Eidetic Memory 121, 260 	 Among the Sheep 265
	 Hobgoblin Deals 256-257 	 Encyclopedic Knowledge 89, 121 	 Apex Predator 265
Hobgoblin Dread Powers 253-256. See 
also Hobgoblin. 	 Etiquette 122, 260, 288 	 Command the Herald 265

	 Beastmaster 254 	 Fame 121-122 	 Heart of Iron 265

	 Bottle Glamour 254 	 Fast Reflexes 122 	 Hungry Heart 266

	 Chameleon Horror 254 	 Fast-Talking 122, 174 	 Hunters Panoply 266

	 Conjure Dreams 254 	 Fighting Finesse 122 	 Hunter’s Senses 266

352 Changeling: the Lost Second Edition



	 Inescapable Snare 266 	 Murkblur 133, 259 	 Purpose 304-305
	 Kindred Spirits 266 	 Stealing the Solid Reflection 135 	 Snowskin 56, 58-59, 139, 301, 306. 
	 Surprise Entrance 266 	 Tatterdemalion’s Workshop 135 See also Kith Blessing, Heart of Ice.

	 Watchful Gaze 266 	 Trivial Reworking 133-134 Kith Blessing 51-59. See also Kith.
	 Abatement 57. See also Kith, Notary.

I K 	 Coeur Loyal 58. See also Kith, Play-
mate.

Icon. See Hedge, Icons. Keeper 10-14, 21-26, 28-29, 31-32, 37-
Initiative. See Violence, Initiative. 38, 50-58, 63-68, 71, 73-74, 76-85, 	 Dive 54, 143. See also Kith, Helldiver.

91, 98, 101, 106, 115, 119, 126, 130, 	 Flare 52. See also Kith, Bright One.
Injury and Healing 187-188. See also Vio- 133, 139-140, 143, 148, 158, 163, 203-
lence. 	 Heart of Ice 59, 159. See also Kith, 

204, 208, 222-223, 225, 234-235, 241, Snowskin.
	 Aggravated (Damage) 15, 111, 187- 243-245, 251, 263-269, 271, 273, 284-
188, 248 285, 288-289, 291-293, 299-301, 304- 	 Mercurial Visage 56. See also Kith, 

	 Bashing (Damage) 15, 111, 187-188, 307, 311, 315. See also Arcadia, Change- Mirrorskin.

332 ling, Contract, Hedge, Mien, Seeming, 	 Pounce 55. See also Kith, Hunterheart.
and True Fae.

	 Bleeding Out 187 	 Sap The Vital Spark 55. See also Kith, 
Kenning 13-14, 83, 107, 126, 139, 163, Leechfinger.

	 Dead 187 198, 207, 219. See also Changeling and 	 Siren Song 57. See also Kith, Nights-
	 Healing Basics 188 Clarity. inger.
	 Lethal (Damage) 16, 117, 187-188 Kingdoms of the Earth 277-293. See also 	 Tools of the Trade 52. See also Kith, Art-
	 Marking Damage 187-188 Council of Elves, Eighty-Nine Dreams of ist.

Home, Faces, Hard-a-Lee, Mantle, Plac-
	 Medical Care 188 es, and Tumbledown Market. 	 To Serve Man 53. See also Kith, Gris-
	 Suffering Damage 187 tlegrinder.

Kindly Ones. See True Fae.
	 Unconscious 187 	 Will That Be All? 53. See also Kith, 

Kith 14, 51-59, 91, 93, 103, 108, 111, Chatelaine.
	 Upgrading Damage 187 115, 117, 139, 213, 242, 244, 299-301, 

304-306, 340. See also Changeling, 
	 Wound 17, 187, 228 Character Creation, Court, Durance, Kith L
	 Wound Penalties 115, 118, 123, 155, Blessing, Seeming, and True Fae.
187, 214, 216, 228, 236, 247, 284, 328, Leaden Mirror, The 43-45. See also Court, 

	 Artist 51-52, 86, 171, 174, 286. See 
332 Autumn. 

also Kith Blessing, Tools of the Trade.
Integrity 15-16, 128, 203, 228, 235, Lexicon 13-17

	 Availability 306
247, 255, 318, 333-334, 339, 341, 343. Locations. See Places.
See also Beats, Character Creation, Clar- 	 Benefits 305-306 Lost. See Changeling. 
ity, Fetch, Virtue and Vice, and Willpower. 	 Bright One 52, 91, 298, 302. See also 
Investigation 194-195. See also Action Kith Blessing, Flare. Loyal, The 58, 129, 239-245, 317. See 

also Arcadia, Changeling, Court, and True 
and Storytelling. 	 Chatelaine 52-53, 139, 306. See also Fae.
	 Clue Elements 195 Kith Blessing, Will That Be All? 	 Bridge-Burners 239-244
	 Interval 195 	 Gristlegrinder 53, 302, 306. See also 

Kith Blessing, To Serve Man. 	 Carey Ives. See Faces, Carey Ives.
	 Scope 194

	 Helldiver 53-54, 139, 143, 228, 288, 	 Distinguishing Between the Loyal 239-
	 Uncovering Clues 195 286, 302, 305. See also Kith Blessing, 240
	 Uncovering the Truth 195 Dive. 	 Other Motives 243-244
Iron Spear, The 39-41. See also Court, 	 Hunterheart 54-55, 91, 304, 306. See 	 Privateers 79, 223, 240, 243. See also 
Summer. also Kith Blessing, Pounce. Huntsmen and True Fae.

J 	 Leechfinger 55, 108, 139, 242, 306. 	 Storytelling the Loyal. See Storytelling 
See also Kith Blessing, Sap The Vital the Loyal. 
Spark.

Jewels Regalia 33, 93-94, 127, 132-135. 	 True Loyalists 240, 244-245
See also Arcadian Contracts and Seem- 	 Mirrorskin 55-56. See also Kith Bless-
ing, Wizened. ing, Mercurial Visage. M
	 Blessing of Perfection 132, 260 	 Nightsinger 56-57. See also Kith Bless-

ing, Siren Song. Mantle 14, 37-38, 42, 45, 49, 80, 83, 
	 Changeling Hours 134 91, 93, 108, 111-112, 115, 117-119, 150-

	 Notary 57. See also Kith Blessing, 
	 Changing Fortunes 132-133 161, 164-165, 191, 203, 212-213, 235, 

Abatement. 240, 279-280, 283-284, 287-288, 291-
	 Dance of the Toys 134 	 Origins 306 292, 307-308, 315, 340-341. See also 
	 Hidden Reality 134-135 	 Playmate 55, 57-58, 91, 163, 235, Changeling, Court, Freehold, and Merits.
	 Light-Shy 126, 133 301. See also Kith Blessing, Coeur Loyal. Mask 14, 30, 52, 56, 71, 78, 81-83, 91, 

102-103, 107-108, 113-114, 118-119, 

Index 353



128, 133-134, 139, 148, 156, 161, 164, 	 Skinmask 139 	 Societal Oaths 213
198-199, 214-216, 222, 225, 227, 242, 	 Unravel the Tapestry 139-140 	 Systems 212-213
263, 265, 270, 299, 313, 344. See also 
Durance, Escape, Fae Magic, Glamour, 	 Walls Have Ears 138 Objects 69, 190-191, 196, 217, 330. See 
Hedge, Mien, and Mortal World. Mortal World 13, 15, 35, 37, 42, 48, 50, also Action and Object Traits.

	 Revealing True Form 108 55-59, 64, 68, 73, 75-76, 79, 83, 89, 	 Armor 187, 322
98, 101, 108, 114, 119, 144, 146, 176, 

Material. See Objects, Material. 	 Armor Chart 322
198-201, 203, 207, 222, 234-236, 246, 

Media 12-13 249, 252-253, 261, 264-265, 300-301, 	 Availability 191

Mental Attributes 169-170. See also At- 312, 314-316. See also Anchor, Change- 	 Building Equipment 196-197
tributes, Mental Skills, Merits, Skills, and ling, Court, Escape, Freehold, Mask, and 	 Damaging Objects 191
Traits. Places.

	 Destruction 191
	 Intelligence 169 Motley 14, 23-24, 27, 31, 38-39, 59, 75, 

80-81, 85, 90, 111, 116-117, 119-121, 	 Dice Bonus 191. See also Dice.
	 Resolve 169-170 124-125, 205, 212-214, 224-225, 228- 	 Equipment 191, 322
	 Wits 169 229, 239, 241, 244, 251, 253, 258, 260, 
Mental Skills 170-172. See also Attributes, 264, 269, 290-291, 295, 298, 300- 	 Jury Rigging 197

Mental Attributes, Merits, Skills, and Traits. 302, 319, 333. See also Changeling, 	 Melee Weapons Chart 323
Clarity, Freehold, and Seeming. 	 Mental Equipment 191. See also Mental 

	 Academics 170
Mountebank. See Seeming, Darkling. Skills.

	 Computer 170-171
Muse. See Seeming, Fairest. 	 Ranged Weapons Chart 324

	 Crafts 171 	 Repair, Modifications, and Upgrades 
	 Investigation 171 N 191, 197
	 Medicine 171

Needle 14, 91, 93, 95-97, 104, 117, 	 Services 322, 325-326
	 Mental Equipment. See Objects, Mental 137, 169, 174, 213, 235, 242, 247, 266, 	 Taking Your Time 197
Equipment. 335, 343, 34. See also Anchor, Character 	 Traits 191
	 Occult 171 Creation, Needle Archetypes, Virtue and 

Vice, and Willpower. 	 Weapons 186, 322
	 Politics 171

Needle Archetypes 91, 95-97. See also Object Traits 191. See also Durability, Ob-
	 Science 171-172 Anchor, Needle, and Willpower. jects, and Traits.
Merits 14-17, 53, 89, 91-94, 99, 101, 
111-126 	 Bon Vivant 91, 96 	 Material 191

, 128, 137, 139, 144, 146, 148, 
176, 186, 191, 196-197, 199-200, 202- 	 Chess Master 91, 96 	 Size 191
203, 206, 213, 215, 224-225, 234-235, 	 Commander 91, 96 	 Structure 191
242, 252-253, 255, 257-262, 270, 283, 
288, 291-292, 307, 312, 318-324, 337, 	 Composer 91, 96 Oddments 115, 208-209. See also 

Hedge and Goblin Fruit.
340, 344. See also Changeling Merits, 	 Counselor 91, 96
Character Advancement, Character Cre- 	 Cogleaf 208

	 Daredevil 91, 96
ation, Fae-Touched Merits, and Human 	 Jennystones 209
Merits. 	 Dynamo 91, 96

	 Lancebeet 209
	 Motley Merits 111 	 Protector 91, 96

Oneiromachy 220
	 Sanctity of Merits 111 	 Provider 91, 96

Oneiromancy 173, 207, 215-222, 242, 
	 Style Merits 111 	 Scholar 91, 96 319, 344. See also Dreaming Roads, 
Mien 81-83, 91, 108, 117, 158, 199, 	 Storyteller 91, 96-97 Dreamweaving, and Gates of Ivory and 
270. See also Court, Durance, Escape, 	 Teacher 91, 97, 172 Horn.
Fae Magic, Hedge, Keeper, Mask, and 	 Traditionalist 91, 97, 242 	 Oneiropomp 15, 215-222
Wyrd. 

	 Visionary 91, 97 Onyx Court, The 47, 49. See also Court, 
Mirror Regalia 25, 54, 92-94, 127, 135- Winter. 
140, 242. See also Arcadian Contracts 
and Seeming, Darkling. O Others. See True Fae.

	 Glimpse of a Distant Mirror 136, 242, Oath 38, 44-46, 80, 84-85, 106, 153, 
259 164, 209, 212-214 P

, 224-225, 228, 235, 
	 Know the Competition 136-137, 242, 265, 268, 271, 287, 301, 315, 317, 319, Physical Attributes 170. See also Attributes, 
260 321. See also Bargain (Pledge), Change- Merits, Physical Skills, Skills, and Traits.

ling, Contract, Glamour, Pledge, Token, 
	 Portents and Visions 137 	 Dexterity 170

True Fae, and Wyrd.
	 Props and Scenery 138 	 Stamina 170

	 Benefits 212
	 Read Lucidity 137 	 Strength 170

	 Consequences 212
	 Reflections of the Past 138-139 Physical Skills 172-173. See also Attri-

	 Hostile Oaths 214, 224, 271 butes, Merits, Physical Attributes, Skills, 
	 Riddle-Kith 139 	 Personal Oaths 129, 213-214, 315 and Traits.

354 Changeling: the Lost Second Edition



	 Athletics 172 	 University of Iceland, The 285. See also 	 Fairest 11, 28-29, 32, 42, 52-53, 57-
	 Brawl 172 Council of Elves, The. 58, 90-91, 93, 108, 128-132, 135, 139, 

	 Drive 172 Pledge 13-15, 45-46, 57, 80-81, 84-85, 142-144, 148-150, 191, 225, 228, 233, 
103, 106, 129, 136, 209-211, 213, 221, 268, 272-273, 286, 291, 301. See also Crown 

	 Firearms 172 270-271, 287, 290, 301, 315-317, 319-321. Regalia.
	 Larceny 172 See also Bargain (Pledge), Changeling, Glam- 	 Favored Attributes 91
	 Stealth 172-173 our, Oath, Sealing, True Fae, and Wyrd. 	 Ogre 30-31, 42, 51, 53, 55, 57, 59, 
	 Survival 173 R 90-91, 93, 108, 128, 130, 132-133, 135, 

138-143, 145-146, 148, 150, 208, 252, 
	 Weaponry 173. See also Objects, 272, 302. See also Shield Regalia.
Weapons. Return, The. See Escape.

	 Wizened 11, 28, 32-33, 38, 51, 55, 
Places 63-85, 89, 116, 125, 144, 200, Rolling Dice. See Dice. 57, 90-91, 93, 126, 132-135, 138, 140-
207, 281, 285, 289, 293. See also Ar- 145, 149, 191, 203, 228, 251, 272-273, 
cadia, Court, Dreaming Roads, Escape, 286, 291. See also Jewels Regalia.
Faces, Hedge, Kingdoms of the Earth, and S
Mortal World. Safe Hearth, Safe Table 302-304. See Shield Regalia 31, 93-94, 127, 140-144. 

	 Cafe du Monde 293. See also Tumble- also Content Warning and Storytelling. See also Arcadian Contracts and Seem-
ing, Ogre. 

down Market. 	 Debriefing 304
	 Cloak of Night 140, 257

	 Castle Hill 289. See also Hard-a-Lee. 	 Door Is Always Open, The 303-304
	 Fae Cunning 140

	 Crane Wildlife Refuge 289. See also 	 Lines and Veils 303
Hard-a-Lee. 	 Fortifying Presence 142

	 Stoplight System, The 303
	 Deep Caves, The 207, 257-258. See 	 Hedgewall 142-143

	 X Card, The 303
also Hedge. 	 Pure Clarity 143

Savage, The. See Seeming, Beast.
	 Dutch Alley 293. See also Tumbledown 	 Shared Burden 140-141
Market. Sealing 15, 210-212, 253, 270-271, 

291, 318-321. See also Pledge. 	 Thorns and Brambles 141-142
	 Exchange, The 293. See also Tumble- 	 Trapdoor Spider’s Trick 142
down Market. 	 Benefits 210

	 Gloomwood 207. See also Hedge. 	 Consequences 210 	 Vow of No Compromise 143
	 Whispers of Morning 54, 143-144

	 Goblin Market 14, 25, 50, 73, 79, 	 Sealing in Play 211
120, 133, 144, 174, 198, 202-203, 207- Seasonal Loeg, The 283-284. See also Shrewd, The. See Seeming, Wizened.
208, 240, 243, 249, 255, 259, 261, 289- Council of Elves and Court. Silent Arrow, The 47-49. See also Court, 
291, 293, 298, 309. See also Hedge and 	 Autumn 284 Winter. 
Tumbledown Market.

	 Spring 283 Skills 15-17, 52, 55, 90, 93-94, 100-
	 Hafnarhusith 285. See also Council of 101, 103, 115, 121-125, 130, 132, 164, 
Elves, The. 	 Summer 283 169-175, 178, 188, 195, 197, 201, 211, 
	 Ipswich Chowderfest and Bazaar 289. 	 Winter 284 213, 226, 235, 252-255, 269, 305, 308, 
See also Hard-a-Lee. Seeming 11, 14-15, 21-33, 69, 87, 89- 334, 339, 342. See also Attributes, Men-

tal Skills, Physical Skills, Social Skills, and 
	 Ladies’ Market 277, 281. See also 93, 103, 108, 113, 117, 127-129, 139, 
Eighty-Nine Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen 148, 235, 2342, 244, 256, 263, 270, Traits.

Pavilion. 272, 299-301, 306, 312, 319, 340. See 	 Skill Specialties 91, 174
also Changeling, Character Creation, 

	 Lantau Island 281. See also Eighty-Nine 	 Untrained 226
Court, Kith, and Motley.

Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen Pavilion. Social Attributes 170. See also Attributes, 
	 Beast 11, 22-23, 38-39, 53-55, 57-

	 Night Market 281. See also Eighty-Nine Merits, Skills, Social Skills, and Traits.
58, 90-91, 93, 108, 117, 128, 131, 134, 

Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen Pavilion. 136-137, 143-148, 150, 191, 304, 307. 	 Composure 170
	 Mei Ho House 281. See also Eighty- See also Steed Regalia. 	 Manipulation 170
Nine Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen Pavil- 	 Blessing 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 52-59, 	 Presence 170
ion. 132, 152, 162, 165, 260. See also Glam- Social Maneuvering 108, 116, 122, 126, 
	 Mines, The 289. See also Hard-a-Lee. our. 128, 155, 161, 179, 191-194, 196, 198, 
	 Rauthholar 285. See also Council of 	 Curse 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 161. See 211, 218, 220, 287, 320, 336-338, 343, 
Elves, The. also Breaking Point and Clarity. 345. See also Storytelling. 
	 Sans Merci Tavern, The 293. See also 	 Darkling 24-25, 53-56, 90-91, 93, 	 Calculating Doors 192
Tumbledown Market. 108, 129-130, 133-134, 136-140, 142, 	 Doors 192
	 Sleeping Badger, The 207. See also 144, 146-148, 228, 242, 272-273, 298. 
Hedge. See also Mirror Regalia. 	 Failure 194

	 Goals 192
	 Tangerine 281. See also Eighty-Nine 	 Elemental 26-27, 52, 56-57, 59, 90-
Dreams of Home, the Yuanfen Pavilion. 91, 93, 102, 108, 113, 126, 129-130, 	 Impression 192-193

133-134, 137, 139-140, 143, 146-150, 
	 Thingvellir 285. See also Council of 	 Opening Doors 193

206, 228, 273, 286, 288, 301. See also 
Elves, The. Sword Regalia. 	 Player vs. Player Resolution 194

Index 355



	 Resolution 193-194 Storyteller 11-12, 15-17, 90-91, 95-96, Sword Regalia 27, 93-94, 127, 147-150, 
	 Social Maneuvering and Consent 192 99, 101-102, 105, 107, 110, 112, 116, 242. See also Arcadian Contracts and 

120-123, 126, 128, 130, 132-133, 137- Seeming, Elemental. 
	 Success 194 138, 142-143, 146, 149, 151, 157-158, 	 Elemental Fury 149, 206
Social Skills 173-174. See also Attributes, 162-163, 174-178, 181-184, 188-201, 
Merits, Social Attributes, Skills, and Traits. 203-204, 206, 211, 213-215, 219-224, 	 Elemental Weapon 113, 147-148

	 Animal Ken 173 226, 229, 233-239, 245-248, 250, 253, 	 Might of the Terrible Brute 148, 261
256, 258, 269, 271, 292, 297-306, 309, 

	 Empathy 173 	 Oathbreaker’s Punishment 149, 242
312, 318-319, 330, 335, 337-341, 343-

	 Expression 173 345. See also Storytelling and Storytelling 	 Overpowering Dread 148, 262

	 Intimidation 173 Games. 	 Primal Glory 113, 148

	 Persuasion 173-174 Storytelling 11, 15-16, 237, 242, 245, 	 Red Revenge 149-150, 242
257-258, 260-261. See also Action, 

	 Socialize 174 Acts, Character Advancement, Character 	 Relentless Pursuit 150

	 Streetwise 174 Creation, Chases, Court, Creating a Fae- 	 Thief of Reason 150
Touched, Creating Hedge Ghosts, Creat-

	 Subterfuge 174 	 Touch of Wrath 148-149, 242
ing Hobgoblins, Faces, Fae-Touched, In-

Sources of Harm 188-190. See also Story- vestigation, Kith, Mantle, Media, Places, 
telling and Violence. Seeming, Social Maneuvering, Storyteller, T
	 Disease 188 Storytelling Games, Storytelling the Fetch, Teamwork 117, 161, 176, 183, 190-191, 

Storytelling the Loyal, Teamwork, Tilt, and 
	 Drugs 189 195, 205, 213, 221, 227, 320-321. See 

Time. also Action, Rolling Dice, Storytelling, and 
	 Electricity 189 	 Customizing Your Chronicle 304 Violence.
	 Environment Levels 189 	 Emotional Bleed 304 Terrible, The. See Seeming, Ogre.
	 Extreme Environments 189-190 	 Fade to Black 303 Theme 11-12. See also Storytelling.
	 Falling 190 	 Introduction to Storytelling Games, An Thread 15, 91, 93, 95, 97-98, 104, 137, 
	 Fire 190 11 153, 161, 169, 174, 193, 206, 219, 228, 
	 Poison 189 	 A Note on Backstory 298 235, 242, 247, 266, 345-346. See also 

Anchor, Character Creation, Thread Ar-
Sovereign, The. See Seeming, Fairest. 	 Props 298 chetypes, Virtue and Vice, and Willpower. 
Spring Contracts 151-153. See also Court, 	 Safe Hearth, Safe Table. See Safe Thread Archetypes 91, 97-98. See also 
Spring and Court Contracts. Hearth, Safe Table. Anchor, Thread, and Willpower. 
	 Blessing of Spring 152 	 Setting the Stage 297-298 	 Acceptance 91, 97
	 Cupid’s Arrow 151 	 Themes 298 	 Anger 91, 97
	 Dreams of the Earth 151 Storytelling Games 11. See also Storytell- 	 Family 91, 97
	 Gift of Warm Blood 152 er and Storytelling.

	 Friendship 91, 97
	 Gift of Warm Breath 151 Storytelling the Fetch 237-238. See also 

Fetch, Fetch Resolution, and Storytelling. 	 Hate 91, 97-98
	 Pandora’s Gift 152-153

	 Fetch as Adversary, The 237 	 Honor 91, 98
	 Prince of Ivy 153

	 Fetch as a Hard Lesson, The 238 	 Joy 91, 98
	 Spring’s Kiss 151

	 Fetch as Other Half, The 238 	 Love 91, 98
	 Waking the Inner Fae 153

	 Fetch as a Question of Humanity, The 	 Memory 91, 98
	 Wyrd-Faced Stranger 152 238 	 Revenge 91, 98
Sprite. See Seeming, Elemental. Storytelling the Loyal 245. See also Loyal, Tide Courts, The 287-288. See also Court 
Steed Regalia 23, 93-94, 127, 144-147. The and Storytelling. and Hard-a-Lee.
See also Arcadian Contracts and Seem- Summer Contracts 153-156. See also 	 Court of Ebb Tide, The 287
ing, Beast. Court, Summer and Court Contracts. 	 Court of Flood Tide, The 288
	 Boon of the Scuttling Spider 144 	 Baleful Sense 153-154 	 Court of High Tide, The 287
	 Chrysalis 145-146 	 Child of the Hearth 154 	 Court of Low Tide, The 287-288
	 Dreamsteps 144, 217, 242, 319 	 Fiery Tongue 155 Tilt 31, 55, 100, 111, 113-114, 118, 126, 
	 Flickering Hours 146 	 Flames of Summer 155 129, 133, 140-141, 144-151, 153-162, 
	 Leaping Toward Nightfall 146 	 Helios’ Judgment 155-156 183-185, 188-190, 196, 203-204, 206, 

213, 218-219, 227, 236, 250-251, 255, 
	 Mirror Walk 146-147 	 Helios’ Light 154 284, 287, 327-332, 334, 337. See also 
	 Nevertread 144 	 High Summer’s Zeal 155 Combat, Condition, and Storytelling.
	 Pathfinder 144-145 	 Solstice Revelation 156 	 Arm Wrack 184, 213, 327, 332
	 Seven-League Leap 145, 261 	 Sunburnt Heart 156 	 Beaten Down 31, 118, 155, 183, 284, 
	 Talon and Wing 147 	 Vigilance of Ares 155 327, 332

356 Changeling: the Lost Second Edition



	 Blinded 113, 133, 148, 154, 162, 183- 	 Turn 15-17, 52-55, 100-102, 116, 124, 	 Court of Barter, The 291-292
184, 327, 332, 334 126-127, 130, 133-136, 140-142, 145, 	 Court of Coins, The 291
	 Blizzard 159, 328, 332 148, 153, 155-158, 160-161, 164, 177, 

182, 184-187, 189-190, 192, 195-197, 	 Court of Favors, The 292, 306
	 Deafened 113, 133, 328, 332 199, 201, 204, 206, 213, 218-221, 223, 	 Court of Shady Deals, The 292
	 Drugged 189, 328, 330, 332 228, 236, 242, 247-249, 255-256, 258, Traits 17, 169-175, 186, 191, 207, 234, 
	 Earthquake 156, 328, 332 266, 272-273, 278, 284, 292, 308, 311, 246, 252, 269, 318. See also Attributes, 

318-320, 324, 327-332, 334, 339
	 Environmental Tilts 149, 159, 183, 190, Changeling, Character Creation, Object 
206, 219, 327, 332 Token 119, 222-229, 250. See also Crown Traits, Skills, and Willpower. 

of Seasons and Token Samples.
	 Extreme Cold 154, 161, 328, 332 	 Size 170

	 By This I Swear 224
	 Extreme Heat 154, 329 	 Speed 175

	 Forged in Thorns 223-224
	 Flesh Too Solid 144, 329, 332, 337 Trod. See Hedge Traveling, Trods.

	 Master’s Keys, The 225
	 Flooded 151, 329, 332 True Fae 11-15, 23-24, 32, 37, 41, 43, 45, 

	 Oath-Forged 15, 120, 163-164, 224- 49, 51-58, 63, 68, 77-84, 89-90, 92, 97, 
	 Heavy Rain 151, 156, 329, 332 225. See also Oath. 100, 102-106, 114-115, 118, 126-128, 143, 
	 Heavy Winds 329, 332 Token Samples 224-229. See also Token. 163-164, 178, 191, 198, 201, 203, 208-
	 Ice 59, 146, 159-160, 329-332 209, 211-212, 222, 225-226, 228, 239-

	 Ace in The Hole 225-226 241, 243-245, 247, 249, 252, 257, 262-
	 Immobilized 141, 148, 158, 161, 185, 	 Arisaema 227 273, 282, 286-287, 299, 303-304, 308, 
250, 330, 332

	 Aurochs Horn, The 225 311-317, 342. See also Arcadia, Changeling, 
	 Inferno 190, 330, 332 Contract, Fae, Frailty, Huntsmen, Keeper, Loy-

	 Blood Pennon 227-228
	 Insane 203, 250, 330, 332 al, Oath, Pledge, and Storytelling. 

	 Book of Things Strange and Wondrous 
	 Insensate 55, 129, 140, 203, 251, 	 Fae, The Gentry, Your Keepers, The 63-

226
330, 332 66

	 Crown of Thorns 228-229
	 Knocked Down 113-114, 145, 150, 	 Names and Pledges 270-271. See also 
156, 329, 330-332 	 Driver’s Little Helper 226 Pledge.

	 Leg Wrack 184, 331-332 	 Ghost Waltz, The 226 	 Names and Titles 267-268

	 Personal Tilts 183, 327, 332 	 Golden Hairnettle 226 	 One Thousand and One Stories 271-

	 Poisoned 147, 151, 189, 227, 331-332 	 Hedgespun Item 225 273
	 Sign on the Dotted Line 268

	 Sick 22, 30, 100, 151, 188, 213, 331- 	 IOU 226-227
332 	 Red Shoes 227 	 True Fae Traits 269-270

	 Stunned 148, 184, 331-332 	 Seeing Stone, The 224 	 Vulnerability and Death 271

Time 13, 177. See also Storytelling. 	 Silver Thread 228 Tumbledown Market (The French Mar-
ket, New Orleans, Louisiana; Large Flea 

	 Chapter 57, 95, 111-112, 115-120, 	 Soul-Compass, The 224 Markets across the United States) 120, 
124, 130, 132-134, 144, 156, 160, 165, Torrent. See Seeming, Elemental. 289-293. See also Faces, Kingdoms of the 
169, 175, 177, 182, 194, 196, 210-211, Earth, Places, and Traders’ Courts. 
213-214, 224, 228, 247, 279, 283-284, Touchstone 15, 91-93, 95, 98-99, 101, 
287-288, 291-292, 301, 304, 308, 318, 105-107, 120, 142, 156, 161, 169, 242, 	 Historiarum Obscura 290-291
321, 337, 343-344 266, 335, 342. See also Anchor, Charac-

ter Creation, Clarity, Durance, Merits, and 
	 Chronicle 51, 89-90, 111, 177, 194, U

Touchstone Examples. 
235, 237, 269, 297-298, 300-306, 309, 
333 Touchstone Examples 99-100. See also Unbound, The. See Seeming, Elemental.

Anchor, Touchstone and Willpower Unicorn. See Seeming, Fairest.
	 Duration 129

	 Best Friend 99
	 Scene 13, 16-17, 52-53, 61, 94-95, V
102-103, 107-108, 110, 112-116, 118- 	 Family 99
119, 122, 126, 129-130, 132-140, 142- 	 Fetch, The 99-100. See also Fetch. Verdant Rule 37. See also Court, Spring.
143, 145-147, 149-155, 157-165, 170- 	 Fling, The 100 Virtue and Vice 174-175. See also Anchor, 
171, 175-178, 180-184, 189, 195-197, 
199, 201, 204, 206-207, 211, 214, 217- 	 Lost Love 100 Integrity, Needle, Thread, and Willpower. 

219, 222, 226-229, 236-239, 247, 249- 	 Occultist, The 100 	 Vice 91-92, 95, 122, 124, 135-136, 
251, 254-256, 264, 266, 269, 271, 283- 161, 169, 174-175, 193, 199, 235, 247, 

	 Private Investigator 100
284, 288, 291, 298, 302-303, 308, 327, 253, 255, 257-262, 265
329-330, 334, 339, 344 	 Therapist 100 	 Virtue 91-92, 95, 135-136, 161, 169, 
	 Story 17, 89-90, 111, 116, 118-119, 	 True Love 100 174-175, 192, 199, 235, 247, 253, 255, 
126, 130, 140, 142, 153, 161, 174, 177, 257-262, 265

	 Your New Home 100
181-182, 184, 194, 197, 199, 215, 222, Violence 172, 183-187, 228. See also 
225, 234, 237-238, 246, 253-254, 291, 	 Your Old Home 100 Action Scene, Dice, Injury and Healing, 
297, 302-303, 309, 312, 318, 321, 337- Traders’ Courts, The 291-292. See also Objects, Sources of Harm, Teamwork, and 
338, 340, 343-344 Court and Tumbledown Market. Tilt.

Index 357



	 Actions in a Fight 184 	 Initiative 16, 23, 92-93, 113-114, 117, 	 Dragon Knows, The 159
	 Aiming 323-324 119, 122, 125, 140, 147, 149, 153, 155- 	 Ermine’s Winter Coat 160-161

156, 165, 182, 185-186, 196, 200, 204, 
	 Armor. See Objects, Armor. 209, 214, 225, 242, 248, 253, 257-262, 	 Fallow Fields 161
	 Armor Piercing 187, 257, 323 284, 287, 320, 323-324, 336 	 Field of Regret 161
	 Attack 16 	 Injury. See Injury and Healing. 	 Heart of Ice 59, 159
	 Autofire 185-186, 324 	 Intent 183 	 Ice Queen’s Call 159
	 Beaten Down & Surrender 31, 118, 	 Killing Blow 185 	 Mantle of Frost 161. See also Mantle.
155, 183, 284, 332 	 Ranged Violence 185-186 	 Slipknot Dreams 159-160
	 Close Combat 16, 186-187, 331 	 Reload a Weapon 185 	 Touch of Winter 160
	 Combat Pool 183. See also Dice. 	 Specified Targets 184 	 Winter’s Curse 161-162
	 Concealment 172, 186 	 Surprise 182, 245, 261 Wisp. See Seeming, Darkling.
	 Condition. See Condition. 	 Touching an Opponent 184 Wound. See Injury and Healing
	 Cover 186 	 Unarmed Violence 185 Wyrd 14-15, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 44, 
	 Covering Fire 186 	 Weapons. See Objects, Weapons. 52, 55-57, 59, 68, 78, 80, 83-85, 92-95, 
	 Damaging Objects. See Objects, Dam- 100-106, 108, 110-113, 115-116, 118-
aging Objects. W 119, 126, 128-153, 155-164, 198-201, 

206, 208-217, 219, 222-224, 226, 228-
	 Defense 16, 40, 53, 57, 92-93, 102, 
112-117, 119, 124, 137, 140, 142, 151, Willpower 15-16, 25, 27, 29, 92-98, 229, 235-237, 242, 246-250, 252-255, 

257-267, 269-271, 287, 299, 302, 305, 
153, 156, 177-178, 182, 184-186, 227, 102-103, 105, 107, 110-111, 113-119, 
236, 242, 248, 251, 253, 256-262, 320, 122, 124, 126-127, 129-132, 134-135, 308, 310, 312-313, 315-316, 318-321, 

322-323, 326-332, 334 138-140, 142-143, 146, 150, 152-153, 337-340, 343-344. See also Arcadia, 
155-158, 160-161, 165, 169, 175, 181- Durance, Fae Magic, Glamour, Gob-

	 Delaying Initiative 182 183, 199, 203, 208, 210-211, 213-214, lin Fruit, Oath, Pledge, Touchstone, and 
	 Detailed Violence 184-185 216-217, 220-222, 227-228, 238, 242, Wyrd. 

	 Dice Pools. See Dice. 246-250, 253, 257-262, 266, 269-270, 	 Longevity 101-102
279-280, 283-284, 288, 291-292, 307-

	 Dodge 113, 158, 184, 227, 327 	 Remembered Dreams 101. See also 
309, 320-321, 327, 330-331, 335-336, Oneiromancy.

	 Down and Dirty Combat 183-184 338-339, 342-346. See also Action, 
Anchor, Dice, Integrity, Needle, Thread, 	 Supernatural Potency 100-101

	 Drop Prone 185 Touchstone, and Virtue and Vice. 	 Supernatural Tolerance 100-101
	 Grapple 185, 323 	 Per Action Limit 181 	 Wyrd Effects 101
	 Healing. See Injury and Healing. 	 Spending Willpower 181
	 Improvised Weapons 186. See also Winter Contracts 159-162. See also Court, 
Objects, Weapons. Winter and Court Contracts.

358 Changeling: the Lost Second Edition